---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1924-06-05
year: 1924
session: 2
page_start: 1096
parliament: 9
file_id: 19240605_reps_9_106
debates:
  - title: "DISTRIBUTION OF WOOL PROFITS"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Motion of Censure"
        id: "#subdebate-0-0"
---

* [DISTRIBUTION OF WOOL PROFITS](#debate-0)
    * [Motion of Censure](#subdebate-0-0)


----


 **Mr. Speaker** (Rt.  Hon.  W. A. Watt) took the chair at 2.30 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1096

{:#debate-0}
### DISTRIBUTION OF WOOL PROFITS

{:#subdebate-0-0}
#### Motion of Censure

##### Mr SCULLIN:<br><small class="text-muted">YARRA, VICTORIA</small>

-- I give notice that tomorrow I shall move - 

  >That this House strongly condemns the Government for its action, in - 
  >
  >Agreeing to pay out of public revenue the sum of £276,393 10s. for distribution between the British Government and B.A.W.R.A. on a claim that had neither legal nor moral support ; 
  >
  >Entering into the agreement without consulting Parliament; and 
  >
  >Making a part payment of £137,696 15s. without Parliamentary appropriation. 

##### Mr CHARLTON:<br><small class="text-muted">Hunter</small>

.- I desire to intimate to the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Bruce)**  that the motion of which the honorable member for Yarra  **(Mr. Scullin)**  has just given notice has the approval of the Labour party and myself. 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minis ter and Minister for External Affairs &middot; Flinders &middot; NAT</small>

--  In view of the announcement of the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Charlton)**  that his party is supporting the motion, which strongly condemns the Government for a certain action, Ministers hare no option but to regard it as a direct motion of censure by the Opposition, and, consequently, I shall pursue the usual course, and move - 

  >That  the  House do now  adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House  adjourned at  2.34 p.m. 

