---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1952-05-29
year: 1952
session: 1
page_start: 1067
parliament: 20
file_id: 19520529_reps_20_217
debates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [PAPERS](#debate-0)


----


 **Mr. BEALE** (Parramatta - Minister for Supply) [12.5 a.m.]. - I do not think that the powerful statement that was made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  **(Mr. Holt)**  requires much amplification. The Government was extremely reluctant to close Glen Davis, but circumstances made it inevitable. It is probable that, from an economic point of view, the plant should never have been at Glen Davis, but on the other side of the Capertee Valley where there are bigger deposits of shale. In 1935, it was estimated that for an expenditure of £600,000 Australia would be able to get 6,000,000 gallons of petrol and 16,000,000 gallons of fuel oil a year at market prices. Instead, this country has invested over £5,000,000 in the venture and petrol has been produced at the rate of less than 3,000,000 gallons a year at a cost of more than 5s. a gallon. So from an economic point of view the venture has been fantastic. 

The key to the situation is the inability or unwillingness of the miners at Glen Davis to mine sufficient shale. If sufficient shale had been fed into the retorts the venture might have had an opportunity to pay its way. In 1949,  **Senator Ashley**  went to Glen Davis and warned the miners that they must increase the output of shale. At that time they were producing about 3 tons for each man-shift. Shortly after his visit the production rate fell to 2.8 tons a man-shift and it has been falling ever since. To a very substantial degree, the responsibility for the position at Glen Davis has to be laid at the door of those who have declined to produce sufficient shale to keep the retorts going at full blast. A proposal was made in relation to what is known as " long wall " mining, which might have assisted production. The suggestion was put to  **Senator Ashley,**  but he did not see fit to act on it because he knew that it would make no ultimate difference. 

About £10,000 a week is being lost in the production of petrol at Glen Davis. In 1947, when the Labour Government was in office, the output of petrol from Glen Davis was 4,000,000 gallons; in 1948, it was 3,100,000 gallons; in 1949, 2,600,000 gallons; and in 1950, 2,400,000 gallons. By 1951 the annual production had fallen to 1,400,000 gallons. The petrol was costing over 5s. a gallon. The petrol produced in 1951 represented . 023 per cent, of Australia's consumption, or less than a day's supply. The Government realized that it would have to take certain action unless it was to accept the proposition that this disastrous and ruinous enterprise should be continued so that the townspeople would not be disturbed. The Government did not reach a decision on this matter wantonly or without thought for the welfare of the people concerned. I appreciate that the people in the district did not want their settlement to be broken up. For fifteen months the Government tried to interest other industries in the venture. It tried to interest the State Government of New South Wales. It tried to adapt the venture to suit the purpose of various government departments, but that was found to be impossible. Many private industries were invited to put forward propositions. All our efforts to keep the township going failed because people were not sufficiently interested. Certainly no one in the oil industry was interested because they knew what a disastrous economic proposition it had been. So, tenders were called. But not one tender was received for this venture as a going concern. The offer to establish it on a co-operative basis was also rejected. Now, fifteen months later, a further proposition is made to the House, but that proposition has only to be stated to be shown to be unacceptable. In those circumstances, no government, however reluctant it might be to injure the people at Glen Davis in their livelihood, dare, having regard to the public interest, to keep the works going. Consequently, at long last and reluctantly, the Government has decided to close the project down. Generous offers are being made to help those who live in the district, but, as the Minister for Labour and National Service has said, we expect to receive some co-operation from those persons, who, we hope, will not make of this matter a cause for industrial disturbance. Naturally, the Government's readiness to be generous and helpful to them must be dependent upon the willingness with which they are prepared to co-operate with it. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 1167

{:#debate-0}
### PAPERS

The following papers were presented :  - 

  >Elections - Statistical Returns in relation to the Senate Elections, and the General Elections for the House of Representatives, 1949, for the several States and Terri- tories. 
  >
  >Public Service Arbitration Act - Determinations - 1952 - 
  >
  >No. 37 - Transport Workers' Union of Australia. 
  >
  >No. 38 - Professional Officers' Association, Commonwealth Public Service. Seat of Government Acceptance Act and Scat of Government (Administration) Act- 
  >
  >Ordinance - 1 952 - No.6 - National Memorials. 
  >
  >Regulations - 1952 - No. 10 (Building and Services Ordinance). 
  >
  >House adjourned at 12.12 a.m. (Friday). 

