---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1952-08-26
year: 1952
session: 1
page_start: 604
parliament: 20
file_id: 19520826_reps_20_218
debates:
  - title: "DEATH OF MR. RUPERT SUMNER RYAN, C.M.G., D.S.O., M.P"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "DEATH OF SENATOR EDMUND STEPHEN KOPEK PIESSE"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [DEATH OF MR. RUPERT SUMNER RYAN, C.M.G., D.S.O., M.P](#debate-0)
* [DEATH OF SENATOR EDMUND STEPHEN KOPEK PIESSE](#debate-1)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-2)


----

Mv. Speaker  Hon.  Archie Cameron)' took the chair at 2.30 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 604

{:#debate-0}
### DEATH OF MR. RUPERT SUMNER RYAN, C.M.G., D.S.O., M.P

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

--  *-lt*  is my melancholy duty toannounce to the House that the honorable member for Flinders  **(Mr. Ryan),**  who has been a very highly regarded and: valued member of this chamber; died at an early hour to-day, at the age of 68 years. The In te  Colonel Rupert  Sumner Ryan enjoyed the great affection- and respect of members of all political parties represented in this Parliament. He had been a member for Flinders since 1940, and was a member of the Social Security Committee until it ceased to function. As most honorable gentlemen areaware, he served with great distinction in World War I., and attained the rank of lieutenant-colonel. He was mentioned in despatches five times, and gained the Distinguished Service Order in 1918. From 1920, he was BritishDeputy High Commissioner with theRhineland High Commission at Coblenz.  In 1928, he was made a Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St George. Oh the 11th October, 1950, hewas appointed  Deputy Chairman  of Committees during the absence of  **Mr. Speaker**  overseas, and at the time of his death he was a. Temporary Chairman of Committees and Chairman of the Foreign  Affairs  Committee. The news of hia  louth  has come with great suddenness to  nil  honorable members. I do not think  that  any of us was aware of any condition in the health of the late honorable member which could have caused his sudden death. It is my sad duty  to  place on record our sense of loss, both personal and political, in this chamber, and  to  convey, on behalf of the House,  to  the family of the late honorable gentleman  an  expression of our warm admiration and our happy memories of his performance of his duty in the Parliament of Australia. I move - 

  >That this House expresses its deep regret at the death  of  **Mr. Rupert**  Sumner Ryan, C.M.G., D.S.O., who at the time of  his death was Member  for  the Division  of  Flinders in the House  of  Representatives, places on record its appreciation  of  his meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 

##### Dr EVATT:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Barton</small>

-- I second the motion.  Colonel Ryan  was active in the House so recently that ordinary words of regret seem quite inadequate to meet this tragic occasion. As the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  has pointed out, the late honorable gentleman had a most distinguished military career. He made many important contributions to the debates in this House, particularly on international affairs, of which he was a keen student.  Lt  is very difficult to associate him- with ordinary party .politics, although he was, of course, an active supporter of hia party. lt is certain that we, on this side of the House, will feel his loss as much as any, and I join with the Prime Minister in expressing, on behalf of members of the Opposition, our deep regret at his death, and our tender sympathy with his relatives. 

##### Sir ARTHUR FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Treasurer &middot; McphersonTreasurer &middot; CP</small>

-- I desire to associate the members of the Australian Country party with the sentiments of regret which have been expressed on the occasion of the death of the late honorable member for Flinders,  **Mr. Rupert**  Ryan, a man who endeared himself to all with whom he came' in contact. He was a kindly man, and will be greatly missed. ' He had a tolerant outlook, and was a profound student of world affairs, his knowledge being such that he was a most valuable member of the Parliament. I join with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, in expressing, on behalf of the members of the Australian Country party, our deepest sympathy with his relative? in their bereavement. 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

{: .page-start }
page 605

{:#debate-1}
### DEATH OF SENATOR EDMUND STEPHEN KOPEK PIESSE

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

-- It is my sad task to refer to the death on the 26th August of  **Senator Edmund**  Stephen Roper Piesse," of Western Australia; The honorable gentleman, who was 52 years of age, became a senator for Western Australia in 1950, so that the length of his parliamentary service was not great. However, long before lie entered this Parliament, he war prominently associated with the affairs pf the Australian Country party in Western Australia, and had earned a high place in the regard of his colleagues. He was a member of the Australian Imperial Force in World War I., and upon his return from active service became prominently associated .with  *the merino*  breeding industry. This activity lasted from 1919 to 1946. For ten years the late  **Senator Piesse**  was  president  of the Katanning Agricultural Society, and for three years he was a member of the Katanning Roads Board. He had extensive business interests in Katanning, and was  .chairman  of the Katanning Stock and Trading Company. It will be seen from that simple narrative of the facts that  **Senator Piesse**  brought with him into the Parliament a very large experience of country affairs. It is indeed a misfortune that after so short a period of service in the Senate he should have met a relatively early death. The late  **Senator Piesse**  is survived by a widow and one daughter. Although he was not a member of this House I am sure that it is the general feeling of honorable members that we should place on record out appreciation of the work done by him. our regret at bis untimely demise, and our warm and profound sympathy with his relatives. I move - 

  >That this House expresses its deep regret at the death of  **Senator Edmund**  Stephen Roper Piesse,a member of the Senate of the Commonwealth Parliament, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 

##### Dr EVATT:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Barton</small>

-- I second the motion. "We of the House of Representatives do not have the same opportunity as do our colleagues of the Senate to become acquainted with the newer members of the Senate, but my colleagues from the Senate have asked me particularly to pay tribute to  **Senator Piesse**  for his broad outlook on national problems and for his frequent contributions of value to the Senate. Therefore, the members of the Opposition join with the Prime Minister  **(Mr.**  Menzies) and the House in expressing regret at the loss of a servant of the State and of the nation, and in expressing special sympathy and sorrow, with his relatives. 

##### Sir ARTHUR FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">McPhersonTreasurer &middot; CP</small>

-- On behalf of the Australian Country party I associate myself with the sentiments which have been expressed concerning the untimely passing of  **Senator Piesse.**  I was not privileged to know  **Senator Piesse**  for very long. I had been acquainted with him only since his election as a senator for Western Australia and as a member of the party which I have the honour to lead. However, I knew him for a sufficiently long period to appreciate in him all the qualities of an outstandingly modest and conscientious man. With the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies),**  and the Leader of the Opposition  **(Dr. Evatt)**  I support the motion of sympathy forhis wife and daughter who are left to mourn his loss. 

##### Mr BEAZLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

-- Because the late  **Senator Piesse**  frequently remained at Canberra for week-ends, as I do myself, I came to know him very well. I should not like tolose this opportunity to pay a tribute to him.  **Senator Piesse**  was a man whomI shall remember as being most charitable in his political judgments and as entirely free of the misrepresentations which form a large part of political conflict in this country. If any one word could be used to sum up his character, I think that it honestly could be said that he was a gentleman. 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

{: .page-start }
page 606

{:#debate-2}
### ADJOURNMENT


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong - Prime 

Minister). - As a mark of respect to the memory of the deceased honorable gentlemen, I move - 

That the House do now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned at  2.43  p.m. 

