---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1914-06-11
year: 1914
session: 2
page_start: 2006
parliament: 5
file_id: 19140611_reps_5_74
debates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "PUNISHMENT OF CADETS"
        id: "#subdebate-0-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "LIGHTHOUSES"
        id: "#subdebate-1-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "NAVAL SUB-BASES"
        id: "#subdebate-2-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM"
        id: "#subdebate-3-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "TRAVELLING OF CADETS"
        id: "#subdebate-4-0"
---

* [QUESTION](#debate-0)
    * [PUNISHMENT OF CADETS](#subdebate-0-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-1)
    * [LIGHTHOUSES](#subdebate-1-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-2)
    * [NAVAL SUB-BASES](#subdebate-2-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-3)
    * [INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM](#subdebate-3-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-4)
    * [TRAVELLING OF CADETS](#subdebate-4-0)


----


 **Mr. Speaker** took the chair at 10.30 a.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 2006

{:#debate-0}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-0-0}
#### PUNISHMENT OF CADETS

##### Mr HIGGS:<br><small class="text-muted">CAPRICORNIA, QUEENSLAND</small>

-- I ask the Prime Minister if he will takeinto his immediate consideration the abolition of solitary confine-; ment as a punishment for defaulting cadets? I should like to be able to make a speech on the subject, but I am afraid that I cannot do so at this stage. 

##### Mr JOSEPH COOK:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Home Affairs &middot; PARRAMATTA, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; LP</small>

-- I promise the honorable member that I shall have a good look into this matter. I do not like solitary confinement for boys, but just what to do in this matter I do not know. 

{: .page-start }
page 2006

{:#debate-1}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-1-0}
#### LIGHTHOUSES

##### Mr FINLAYSON:<br><small class="text-muted">BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND</small>

-- Will the Minister of Trade and Customs inform the House whether there has been further correspondence between this Government and that of Queensland in regard to the control of lighthouses, and, if so, what decision has been come to? 

##### Mr GROOM:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Trade and Customs &middot; DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND &middot; LP</small>

-- There has been no correspondence since that to which I have already referred. 

##### Mr Finlayson:

-- There was some difference of opinion. 

##### Mr GROOM:

-- Therehas been no further official correspondence, and no claim of the kind spoken of by the honorable member on a former occasion has been made. 

##### Mr BAMFORD:<br><small class="text-muted">HERBERT, QUEENSLAND</small>

-- Will any sum be placed on the next Estimates to give effect to the recommendations of Commander Brewis with respect to the lighting of the North Queensland coast? 

##### Mr GROOM:

-- The material has been obtained, and the men engaged, for the erection of seven or eight lighthouses on the inner Barrier Reef, on the North Queensland coast. The Director of Lighthouses is submitting details in connexion with additional lights for different parts of Australia. 

{: .page-start }
page 2007

{:#debate-2}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-2-0}
#### NAVAL SUB-BASES

##### Mr POYNTON:<br><small class="text-muted">GREY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA</small>

-- Will the Minister representing the Minister of Defence ascertain when the works at the Naval SubBase at Port Lincoln are likely to be commenced? 

##### Mr KELLY:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister (without portfolio) &middot; WENTWORTH, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; LP</small>

-- I shall endeavour to obtain the information from my colleague. 

##### Mr ATKINSON:<br><small class="text-muted">WILMOT, TASMANIA</small>

-- What is being done in connexion with the naval subbases recommended by Admiral Henderson, especially at the important point known as Beauty Point, on the River Tamar? 

##### Mr KELLY:

-- I shall bring the honorable member's question under the notice of my colleague the Minister of Defence. 

{: .page-start }
page 2007

{:#debate-3}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-3-0}
#### INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM

##### Dr MALONEY:<br><small class="text-muted">MELBOURNE, VICTORIA</small>

-- Will the Prime Minister give time for the taking of a division, without debate, on the initiative and referendum motion standing on the business-paper in the name of the honorable member for Gippsland? 

##### Mr JOSEPH COOK:<br><small class="text-muted">LP</small>

-- There is in this chamber the most curious political perspective that I ever recollect. My honorable friends opposite every day ask me for favours, yet they will not even give us Supply. 

{: .page-start }
page 2007

{:#debate-4}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-4-0}
#### TRAVELLING OF CADETS

##### Mr McGRATH:<br><small class="text-muted">BALLAARAT, VICTORIA</small>

-- Will the Minister representing the Minister of Defence cause inquiries to be made concerning facts which are causing a good deal of indignation in some of the country districts? Cadets living in Gordon and Egerton, in the Ballarat division, are required to walk 14 miles to fire five shots, when there is no need for them to walk a mile. Will the Minister see if that can be prevented? 

##### Mr KELLY:<br><small class="text-muted">LP</small>

-- I shall ask my colleague to institute an inquiry to get at the facts, with a view to the prevention of unnecessary travelling. 

##### Mr FENTON:<br><small class="text-muted">MARIBYRNONG, VICTORIA</small>

-- Will the Minister also ask whether an arrangement has yet been made with the State Governments for providing railway travelling facilities for cadets who have to attend drills at places miles from their homes? 

##### Mr KELLY:

-- If my honorable friend will put his question on the notice-paper, I shall obtain a reply. 

