---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1946-11-06
year: 1946
session: 1
page_start: 15
parliament: 18
file_id: 19461106_reps_18_189
debates:
  - title: "PROCLAMATION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: proclamations
    subdebates:
  - title: "OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "MEMBERS SWORN"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ELECTION OF SPEAKER"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "SECOND CHIFLEY MINISTRY"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Prime Minister and Treasurer - The Right Honorable J. B. Chifley"
        id: "#subdebate-5-0"
      - title: "Minister for Labour and National Service - The Honorable E.J. Holloway"
        id: "#subdebate-5-2"
      - title: "Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable A. S. Drakeford"
        id: "#subdebate-5-4"
      - title: "Minister for Transport and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable E. J. Ward"
        id: "#subdebate-5-6"
      - title: "Minister for Information and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable A. A. Calwell"
        id: "#subdebate-5-8"
      - title: "Minister for Works and Housing - The Honorable N. Lemmon"
        id: "#subdebate-5-10"
      - title: "Minister for Repatriation - The Honorable H. C. Barnard"
        id: "#subdebate-5-12"
  - title: "LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEADER OE THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1946"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADDRESS-IN-REPLY"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "HOUR OF MEETING"
    id: "#debate-11"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
---

* [PROCLAMATION](#debate-0)
* [OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT](#debate-1)
* [MEMBERS SWORN](#debate-2)
* [ELECTION OF SPEAKER](#debate-3)
* [COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH](#debate-4)
* [SECOND CHIFLEY MINISTRY](#debate-5)
    * [Prime Minister and Treasurer - The Right Honorable J. B. Chifley](#subdebate-5-0)
    * [Minister for Labour and National Service - The Honorable E.J. Holloway](#subdebate-5-2)
    * [Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable A. S. Drakeford](#subdebate-5-4)
    * [Minister for Transport and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable E. J. Ward](#subdebate-5-6)
    * [Minister for Information and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable A. A. Calwell](#subdebate-5-8)
    * [Minister for Works and Housing - The Honorable N. Lemmon](#subdebate-5-10)
    * [Minister for Repatriation - The Honorable H. C. Barnard](#subdebate-5-12)
* [LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION](#debate-6)
* [LEADER OE THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY](#debate-7)
* [ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1946](#debate-8)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-9)
* [ADDRESS-IN-REPLY](#debate-10)
* [HOUR OF MEETING](#debate-11)


----

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-0}
### PROCLAMATION

The House met at 2 p.m., pursuant to the proclamation of His Royal Highness theGovernor-General. 

The  Clerk  read the proclamation. 

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-1}
### OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT

The Usher of the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered the message that the Deputy of the Governor-General for the Opening of the Parliament requested the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 

Honorable members attended accordingly, and, having returned, the Deputy authorized by the Governor-General to administer the oath or affirmation entered the chamber. 

The  Clerk  read the commission, under the 'Great Seal of the Commonwealth, authorizing the Right Honorable  **Sir John**  Greig Latham, Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, to administer the oath or affirmation of allegiance to the King required by the Constitution to be taken or made by members of the House of Representatives. 

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-2}
### MEMBERS SWORN

The  Clerk  announced that he had received from the Official Secretary to the Governor-General returns to 74 writs for the election of members of the House of Representatives, held on 28thSeptember, 1946. A return to the writ for the election of a member for the Northern Territory had not yet been received byhim. 

The following honorable members, with the exception of  **Mr. George**  Lawson, who was not present, made and subscribed the oath or affirmation of allegiance: - 

Abbott, Joseph Palmer, New England, New SouthWales. 

Adermann, Charles Frederick, Maranoa, Queensland. 

Anthony, Hubert Lawrence, Richmond, New South Wales. 

Barnard, Herbert Claude, Bass, Tasmania. 

Beale, Oliver Howard,Parramatta, New South Wales. 

Beazley, Kim Edward, Fremantle, Western Australia. 

Blackburn, Doris Amelia, Bourke, Victoria. 

Bowden, George James, Gippsland, Victoria. 

Brennan, Frank, Batman, Victoria. 

Burke, Thomas Patrick, Perth, Western Australia. 

Calwell, Arthur Augustus, Melbourne, Victoria. 

Cameron, Archie Galbraith, Barker, South Australia. 

Chambers, Cyril, Adelaide, South Australia. 

Chifley, Joseph Benedict, Macquarie, New SouthWales. 

Clark, Joseph James, Darling, New South Wales. 

Conelan, William Patrick, Griffith, Queensland. 

Corser, Bernard Henry, Wide Bay, Queensland. 

Daly, Frederick Michael, Martin, New South Wales. 

Davidson, Charles William,Caprieornia, Queensland. 

Dedman, John Johnstone,Corio, Victoria. 

Drakeford, Arthur Samuel, Maribyrnong, Victoria. 

Duthie, Gilbert William Arthur, Wilmot, Tasmania. 

Edmonds, William Frederick, Herbert, Queensland. 

Evatt, Herbert Vere, Barton, New South Wales. 

Fadden, Arthur William, Darling Downs, Queensland. 

Falkinder, Charles William Jackson, Franklin, Tasmania. 

Falstein, Sydney Max, Watson, New South Wales. 

Francis, Josiah, Moreton, Queensland. 

Fraser, Allan Duncan, Eden-Monaro, New South Wales. 

Fuller, Arthur Neiberding, Hume, New South Wales. 

Gaha, John Francis, Denison, Tasmania. 

Gullett, Henry Baynton Somer, Henty, Victoria. 

Hadley, J ames William, Lilley, Queensland. 

Hamilton, Leonard William, Swan, Western Australia. 

Harrison, Eric John, Wentworth, New South Wales. 

Haylen, Leslie Clement, Parkes, New South Wales. 

Holloway, Edward James, Melbourne Ports, Victoria. 

Holt, Harold Edward, Fawkner, Victoria. 

Howse, John Brooke,Calare, New South Wales. 

Hughes, William Morris, North Sydney, New South Wales. 

Hutchinson, William Joseph, Deakin, Victoria. 

James, Rowland, Hunter, New South Wales. 

Johnson, Herbert. Victor, Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. 

Lang, John Thomas, Reid, New South Wales. 

Langtry, Joseph Ignatius, Riverina, New South Wales. 

Lawson, George, Brisbane, Queensland. 

Lazzarini, Hubert Peter, Werriwa, New South. Wales. 

Lemmon, Nelson, Forrest, Western Australia. 

Lyons, Enid Muriel, Darwin, Tasmania. 

Menzies, Robert Gordon, Kooyong, Victoria. 

McBride, Philip Albert, Wakefield, South Australia. 

McDonald, Allan McKenzie, Corangamite, Victoria. 

McEwen, John, Indi, Victoria. 

McLeod, Donald, Wannon, Victoria. 

Mulcahy, Daniel, Lang, New South Wales. 

O'Connor, William Paul, West Sydney, New South Wales. 

Page, Earle Christmas Grafton, Cowper, New South Wales. 

Pollard, Reginald Thomas, Ballarat, Victoria. 

Rankin, George James, Bendigo, Victoria. 

Riordan, William James Frederick, Kennedy, Queensland. 

Rosevear, John Solomon, Dalley, New South Wales. 

Russell, Edgar Hughes Deg, Grey, South Australia. 

Ryan, Rupert Sumner, Flinders, Victoria. 

Scullin, James Henry, Yarra, Victoria. 

Scully, William James, Gwydir, New South Wales. 

Sheeh an, Thomas, Cook, New South Wales. 

Sheehy, Thomas Neil, Boothby, South Australia. 

Spender, Percy Claude, Warringah, New South. Wales. 

Thompson, Albert Victor, Hindmarsh, South Australia. 

Turnbull, Winton George, Wimmera, Victoria. 

Ward, Edward John, East Sydney, New South Wales. 

Watkins, David Oliver, Newcastle, New South Wales. 

White, Thomas Walter, Balaclava, Victoria. 

Williams, Thomas Francis, Robertson, New SouthWales. 

The Deputy retired. 

{: .page-start }
page 17

{:#debate-3}
### ELECTION OF SPEAKER

##### Mr MULCAHY:<br><small class="text-muted">Lang</small>

-- I move- 

  >That the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  do take the chair of this House as  Speaker. 

##### Mr Hadley:

--  I second the motion. 

##### Mr Rosevear:

--  I accept nomination. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

-- I move - 

  >That the honorable member for Corangamite  **(Mr. McDonald)**  do take the chair of this House as  Speaker. 

Mr.Fadden.  -  I second the motion. 

##### Mr McDonald:

--  I accept nomination. 


 *The time for further proposals having expired,* 


##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

--  The Opposition has submitted the nomination of the honorable member for Corangamite  **(Mr. McDonald)**  for the Speakership of this House, not because it entertains some such fanciful idea as that the numbers will be with it in the ballot, but because it considers that it ought to seize this opportunity to say one or two things about the Speakership. We believe, and imagine that all honorable members will believe, that it is the function of  **Mr. Speaker**  to be scrupulously impartial in his treatment of both sides of the House. All honorable members who were in the last Parliament will recall that on, at any rate, two occasions, it became necessary for the members of the Opposition to put into formal shape their protest against rulings given by  **Mr.. Speaker**  in that Parliament, and against what they believe to be his partial treatment of members of the House. That is why we take this opportunity of submitting a candidate in opposition to the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear).**  I want to say right away, so that there may be no confusion about this discussion, that our attitude on this matter, and the protest upon which we build it, are not in any day due to some personal hostility to the honorable member for Dalley, as he knows. It is not based upon the idea that he lacks the ability to perform the functions of the Chair, because everybody on this side of the House recognizes his ability, and acknowledges it freely. Our complaint is not, and never has been, based upon personal grounds. It is and has been based upon our belief that, in a Parliament constituted as this one is, scrupulous fairness should be observed in the treatment of both sides; and it is in order that we may have an opportunity of securing that treatment that we nominate the honorable member for Corangamite for the Chair, and invite the House to elect him. 

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">PrimeMinister and Treasurer &middot; Macquarie &middot; ALP</small>

--  I support the nomination of the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  for the position of  Speaker  in the belief that it is the best that could be made. The honorable member, during his previous occupancy of the position, performed his duties most ably, and I repudiate the suggestion that he was other than impartial. During the time that I have been a member of this Parliament no one has discharged the duties of  Speaker  with greater distinction, impartiality and ability than did the honorable member for Dalley. 

Motion (by  **Mr. Chifley)**  put by the  Clerk- 

  >That the question be now put. 

The House divided.

AYES: 44

NOES: 29

Majority . .  . . 15 


 *In division:* 


AYES

NOES

##### The Clerk:

--  Paragraphf of Standing Order 7 provides that when two or more nominations for the position of Speaker are before the House, and debate takes place, the Prime Minister may at any time move that the question be put. The standing order then provides as follows :  - 

  >Upon the carrying of the Question " That the Question be now put", or upon the cessation of the debate otherwise, the election shall be proceeded with as provided in this Standing Order. 

In accordance with the Standing Orders the bells will be rung and ballot-papers will be distributed to honorable members, each of whom will mark upon the paper handed to him the name of the candidate he desires to have elected. 


<graphic href="189331194611064_3_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="189331194611064_3_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


Question so resolved in the affirmative. 


 *The bells having been rung and a ballot having been taken,* 


##### The Clerk:

--  I have to announce the result of the ballot as follows: -  **Mr. Rosevear,**  44 votes;  **Mr. McDonald,**  29 votes. As the honorable member for Dalley has secured a majority of the votes of the members present, he is elected to the position of  Speaker  of this House. 


 *Members of the House then calling* 
 **Mr. Rosevear** 
 *to the chair, he was taken out of his place by* 
 **Mr. Mulcahy** 
 *and* 
 **Mr. Hadley** 
 *and conducted to the Chair.* 


##### Mr SPEAKER (Hon J S Rosevear:<br><small class="text-muted">DALLEY, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

-- I thank honorable members for having again conferred on me the high and honorable office of Speaker of this House. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *having seated himself in the chair.* 



 **Mr. CHIFLEY** (Macquarie - Prime Minister and Treasurer). - On behalf of the members of the Government party in the House I extend to you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  our very warm congratulations on your election to the distinguished position of  Speaker.  Our experience of your work inthis position during the last Parliament was that you did honorable service. You showed great capacity in the chair, and carried out the duties of the office in a manner that maintained the traditions of the great Speakers who have gone before you. I extend to you, on behalf of honorable members, our congratulations. 


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong- Leader of the Opposition). - I submitted on behalf of the Opposition a few minutes ago a view from which the House, by a substantial majority, has dissented. I, therefore, congratulate you, sir, upon your election to the Speakership of the House. 

##### Mr FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Darling DownsLeader of the Australian Country party</small>

-- On behalf of my party, I congratulate you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  on the overwhelming vote you received in the ballot. Not a single preference went astray. presentationtothegovernor- General. 


 **Mr. CHIFLEY** (Macquarie - Prime Minister and Treasurer). - I have ascertained that it will he the pleasure of  His  Royal Highness the Governor-General to receive you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  in the Parliamentary Library immediately. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I shall be glad if as many honorable members as can do so will attend with me, when I wait on His Royal Highness. 


 *Sitting suspended from3 to3.5 p.m.* 



 *The House proceeded to the Library, and, being re-assembled,* 


##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to report that, accompanied by honorable members, I proceeded to the Library of the Parliament and presented myself to His Royal Highness the Governor-General as the choice of the House, and that His Royal Highness was kind enough to congratulate me on my election as Speaker. 

The Usher ok the Black Rod being announced, was admitted, and delivered a message that  His  Royal Highness the Governor-General desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *and honorable members attended accordingly and, having returned,* 


{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-4}
### COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH

##### Mr SPEAKER (Hon J S Rosevear:

-- I have received from His Royal Highness the Governor-General a commission authorizing me to administer to members of the House the oath, or affirmation, of allegiance. I now lay the commission on the table. 

{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-5}
### SECOND CHIFLEY MINISTRY

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Treasurer &middot; Macquarie &middot; ALP</small>

-- I formally announce that, on the 1st November, a new Ministry was formed, constituted as follows: - 

{:#subdebate-5-0}
#### Prime Minister and Treasurer - The Right Honorable J. B. Chifley

Attorney-General and Minister for External Affairs - The Right Honorable H. V. Evatt, LL.D., D. Litt., K.C. 

{:#subdebate-5-1}
#### Minister for Labour and National Service - The Honorable E.J. Holloway

{:#subdebate-5-2}
#### Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable A. S. Drakeford

Vice-President of the Executive CouncilThe Honorable W. J. Scully. 

Minister for Supply and Shipping -  **Senator the**  Honorable W. P. Ashley. 

Minister for Defence, Minister for Post-war Reconstruction and Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research - The Honorable J. J. Dedman. 

{:#subdebate-5-3}
#### Minister for Transport and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable E. J. Ward

Postmaster-General -  **Senator the**  Honorable D. Cameron. 

{:#subdebate-5-4}
#### Minister for Information and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable A. A. Calwell

Minister for the Interior - The Honorable H. V. Johnson. 

Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services -  **Senator the**  Honorable N. E. McKenna. 

Minister for Commerce and AgricultureThe Honorable R. T. Pollard. 

{:#subdebate-5-5}
#### Minister for Works and Housing - The Honorable N. Lemmon

Minister for Munitions -  **Senator the**  Honorable J. I. Armstrong. 

Minister for the Army - The Honorable C. Chambers. 

Minister for Trade and Customs -  **Senator the**  Honorable B. Courtice. 

Minister for the Navy - The Honorable W. J. F. Riordan. 

{:#subdebate-5-6}
#### Minister for Repatriation - The Honorable H. C. Barnard

In addition to the duties associated with their portfolios, it has been arranged that the Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services  **(Senator McKenna)**  will assist the Attorney-General and Minister for External Affairs  **(Dr. Evatt)**  in administering the office of AttorneyGeneral, and that the Minister for Works and Housing.  **(Mr. Lemmon)**  will assist me in the office of Treasurer. 

The Department of Aircraft Production has bees abolished. The functions previously carried out by that department will be the responsibility of the Department of Munitions. 

Senate Ministers will be represented in the House of Representatives as foi-, lows. - The Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services will be represented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  **(Mr. Holloway).**  The Minister for Supply and Shipping and the Minister for Munitions will be represented by the Minister for Defence, Minister for Post-war Reconstruction and Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research  **(Mr. Dedman).**  The Postmaster-General will be represented by the Minister for Information and Minister for Immigration  **(Mr. Calwell).**  The Minister for Trade and Customs will be represented by the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture  **( Mr. Pollard).** 

House of Representatives Ministers will be represented in the Senate as follows: - The Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the Minister for Labour and National Service, and the Minister for Defence will' he represented by the Minister for Supply and Shipping  **(Senator Ashley).**  The Attorney-General, the Minister for External Affairs, the Minister for Post-war Reconstruction, the Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and tho Minister for the Navy will be represented by the Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services  **(Senator MoKenna).**  The Minister for Air, the Minister for Civil Aviation, and the Minister for Repatriation will be represented by the Postmaster-General  **(Senator Cameron).**  The Minister for Transport, the Minister for External Territories, the Minister for Immigration, the Minister for Information, and the Minister for "Works and Housing will be represented by the Minister for Munitions  **(Senator Armstrong).**  The Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, and the Minister for the Army will be represented by the Minister for Trade and Customs  **(Senator Courtice)**  . 

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-6}
### LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of  the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

-- I have to  announce  that I have been elected Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the Liberal  party of Australia, and the honorable member for Wentworth  **(Mr. Harrison) Deputy**  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-7}
### LEADER OE THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY

##### Mr FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Darling DownsLeader of the Australian Country party</small>

-- I desire to inform you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  and the House, that I have been elected Leader of the Australian Country party, and the honorable member for Indi  **(Mr. McEwen) Deputy**  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-8}
### ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1946

 Motion (by  **Mr. Chifley)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be given to bring in a bill for an act to amend the Actu Interpretation Act 1901-1041. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-9}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-10}
### ADDRESS-IN-REPLY

##### Mr SPEAKER (Hon J S Rosevear:

-- I have to report that the House this day attended Has Royal Highness the Governor-General in the Senate chamber, where His Royal Highness was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of the Parliament, of which I have obtained a copy  *(vide*  page 6). 

Motion (by  **Mr. Chifley)**  agreed to - 

  >That a committee, consisting of  **Mr. Duthie, Mr. Edmonds,**  and the mover, be appointed to prepare an Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered bv  His  Royal Highness the GovernorGeneral to both Houses of the Parliament, and that the committee do report at the next sitting. 

{: .page-start }
page 20

{:#debate-11}
### HOUR OF MEETING

Motion (by  **Mr.**  Chifley)  agreed to - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to to-morrow, at 2.30 p.m. 

House adjourned  at  3.40 p.m. 

