---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1946-06-18
year: 1946
session: 3
page_start: 1498
parliament: 17
file_id: 19460618_reps_17_187
debates:
  - title: "DEATH OF SENATOR THE HONORABLE RICHARD VALENTINE KEANE"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [DEATH OF SENATOR THE HONORABLE RICHARD VALENTINE KEANE](#debate-0)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-1)


----


 **Mr. SPEAKER (Hon.** 
 *J..* S. Rosevear) took the chair at 3 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1498

{:#debate-0}
### DEATH OF SENATOR THE HONORABLE RICHARD VALENTINE KEANE

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Treasurer &middot; Macquarie &middot; ALP</small>

-- It is my sad duty to record that  **Senator the**  Honorable Richard Valentine Keane died in Washington on the 26th April; 1946. During the last few years  **Senator Keane**  in the arduous and exacting post of Minister for Trade and Customs and as Minister in charge of lend-lease threw all his energy and ability into the service of Australia. He gave untiringly and unstintingly of the shrewdness of mind and soundness of judgment of which he was so abundantly possessed. As honorable, members know, at the time of his death he was engaged in delicate and exacting negotiations associated with the winding up of lend-lease arrangements - negotiations which contributed largely to complete agreement being reached with the United States of America. There is little doubt that the strain under which he was then working and to which he had been subjected for so long, contributed in no small measure to the heart attack which resulted in his sudden death. 

The late senator was elected as the representative for the Division of Bendigo in the House of Representatives in 1929. He was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from July, 1930, to November, 1931, but was defeated at the general elections in that year. In 1937 he was elected to the Senate for Victoria, and remained a senator until the time of his death. He was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from 1938 to 1940, and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate in 1938 and in 1941; VicePresident of the Executive Council from 1941  to 1943; Minister for Trade and Customs from the 7th October, 19'4l; Acting Minister for Health and Social Services in 1945; Leader of the Government in the Senate from September, 1943 ; a member of the Joint Committee on Social Security in 1941; a member of the Production Executive of . Cabinet from September, 1943 ; and a member of the Joint Committee on Income Tax on Current Income, in 1944. He visited the United States of America and Canada in 1944 on a mission for the Commonwealth Government. 


 **Senator Keane** was a grand party man, and an indefatigable worker for union principles. Prior to entering Parliament he was general secretary of the Australian Rail ways Union, and he had previously held all leading executive positions in that organization. He was also vice-president of the Coin mc-n weal th Council of Federated Unions until that body was absorbed by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. The trihut.es that were pu iti to  **Senator Keane**  at the time of his death were indicative of the esteem in which he was held by all sections of the' community. He was a great Australian, and his death is a very real loss to the people of this country. 

Dick Keane, like his former leader, John Curtin, died " on the job ". I recall his words in the Senate on the occasion of the death of the late Prime Minister - 

  >John  Curtin is as one to-day with those ti.uli tiing men of our niue who lui ve given their lives that we might live. We in this Parliament here and in another place have los.t a colleague: we have lost too u guide and a friend. 

The sentiments that he then expressed apply with equal force to himself. I personally mourn the lose of a sincere friend and a much valued colleague.' It is now my sad duty to move- 

  >That this House expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honorable Richard Valentine Keane, member of the House of Representatives for .the' Division of  Bendigo  from 1929 to 11)31, senator for Victoria from 1937 -ito 194(i, Vice-President of the Executive Council from 1941  to  1943, Minister for Trade and Customs from 1943 to .1.940, and Leader of the Government in the Senate from 1943  to  1.040 ; places on record its appreciation of his distinguished public service, and tenders to bis widow, his children, and all relatives its profound sympathy in 'their- bereavement. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

-- I associate the Opposition with the motion, and with the words that have fallen from the Hps of  tj!1  the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Chifley). Senator Keane,**  when I first had the pleasure of knowing him, was, as we have been reminded, a prominent official of the Australian Railways Union. At that time, I saw a good deal of his work on behalf of his members in and about the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. In my experience  of  him, he was always a. shrewd and a wise man. He earned a very well deserved reputation as a champion of unremitting but constitutional action on behalf of all those who depended upon his services. When he entered Parliament he revealed uncommon parliamentary gifts. These, I believe, were particularly disclosed during the time of his ministerial office. He was an uncommonly good parliamentarian, not only because he knew the business of Parliament 'thoroughly, but also because, whilst being a constant fighter for what he believed in, he was always fair and, indeed, generous to his opponents. As a Minister, of course, he sustained what, perhaps, is not as yet very widely recognised - the extraordinary burden which office has imposed upon its holders during the last few years. I can speak of that with some little knowledge, gained from my own experience in the first two years of the war, as well as some knowledge of what my colleagues also sustained during that time. Within the  la3t  few years that burden has certainly not been lighter. A very great burden fell upon the late honorable gentleman, and I believe that the sustaining  of  it .undoubtedly shortened his life. Personally, as we are all prompt to recognize, he was a. most companionable man, who succeeded in maintaining great personal friendships while at 'the same time maintaining active political opposition. He was, indeed, the most admirable  of  opponents in the political field, and a good friend. We shall all miss him. 

##### Mr FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Darling DownsLeader of the Australian Country party</small>

-On behalf of the Australian Country party, I associate myself very sincerely with the motion expressing regret at the death of  **Senator Keane.**  To know  **Senator Keane**  was to like him. He was a hig Australian who possessed ,the breadth of vision and tolerance which are characteristic of those who are familiar with the  wide open spaces of Australia. He was n lovable character, humorous to  *the*  last degree yet conscientious in the performance of any task that he undertook. His conscientiousness was one of the factors that contributed to his death. He was  another  of the great Australians who have sacrificed themselves in the service of Australia. The Australian County party joins with all others who mourn his loss. They have the consolation of knowing that he advanced the interests of Australia and performed his duties with the utmost credit to himself and those associated with him, as well- as with complete satisfaction to those who were politically opposed to him. 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

{: .page-start }
page 1500

{:#debate-1}
### ADJOURNMENT

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Treasurer &middot; Macquarie &middot; ALP</small>

.- As a mark of respect to the memory of the deceased senator, I move - 

  >That thu House do now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned at 3.10 \&gt;.m. 

