---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1920-05-27
year: 1920
session: 1
page_start: 2452
parliament: 8
file_id: 19200527_reps_8_92
debates:
  - title: "MEETING OF THE HOUSE"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Orderof Procedure"
        id: "#subdebate-0-0"
  - title: "LEAVE OF ABSENCE"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: leave of absence
    subdebates:
  - title: "SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: special adjournment
    subdebates:
  - title: "PRESENTATION OF ADDRESS TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
---

* [MEETING OF THE HOUSE](#debate-0)
    * [Orderof Procedure](#subdebate-0-0)
* [LEAVE OF ABSENCE](#debate-1)
* [SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT](#debate-2)
* [PRESENTATION OF ADDRESS TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES](#debate-3)


----


 **Mr. Speaker (Hon. W. Elliot Johnson)** took the chair at 7 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 2452

{:#debate-0}
### MEETING OF THE HOUSE

{:#subdebate-0-0}
#### Orderof Procedure

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Prior to theadjournment of the House on Friday last, it was agreed that the address to  His  Royal Highness the Prince of Wales should be presented by  **Mr. Speaker**  in the Library, no arrangement at that time having been made by another place for the adoption of an address. A special meeting was, however, subsequently summoned for this evening for that purpose, and, owing to the method of procedure proposed , to be adopted there, it became advisable, in the opinion of the Government, tovary the programme regarding the place of presentation, which, in the altered circumstances, it was thought ought to be this chamber. I therefore, at the request of the Prime Minister, summoned this special meeting for. the purpose. 

Motions in the same terms as those passed at the last sitting of theHouse will be submitted, giving leave of absence to all honorable members, and providing for the adjournment of the House to a date to be fixed by  **Mr. Speaker.**  These motions are required owing to the present sitting of the House. Should an interval elapse before the arrival of  His  Hoyal Highness, I may temporarily vacate the chair, resuming it whenthe Prince is approaching. 

The Prime Minister will announce the arrival of  His  Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, whereupon I shall welcome  His  Royal Highness, and invite him to take a seat on the dais beside the Speaker's chair. On the entrance of the Prince, and during his presence in the chamber, honorable members will be invited to stand. I shall then read the Address of Welcome, to which HisRoyal Highness will make a reply. 

The Prime Minister will then move " That the House do now adjourn," which motion being carried, I shall ask Ministers, the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Country party, the other members then present, and the officers of the House, to come forward to be presented. After presentation, they will pass behind the Speaker's chair, and thence into the Queen's Hall, to take their places at the dining table, prior to' the Prince entering the Hall. I, with the Prime Minister, will then accompany  His  Royal Highness to the door of the House. 

{: .page-start }
page 2452

{:#debate-1}
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE

##### Sir JOSEPH COOK:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for the Navy &middot; PARRAMATTA, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; FT; ANTI-SOC from 1906; LP from 1910; NAT from 1917</small>

-- These pleasant proceedings make a break in the continuity of our sittings, and require that we should pass again two motions which, because of this happy bringingtogether of the House, have lapsed. Honorable member's will recollect that before we adjourned on Friday two proposals were brought before the House and carried, one giving leave of absence to honorable members until the calling together of the House, and the other adjourning the. House until summoned by  **Mr. Speaker.**  These now lapse, and must be re-passed to become effective. I accordingly move - 

  >That leave of absence be given to every member of the House of Representatives from the determination of this sitting of the House to the date of its next sitting. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 2453

{:#debate-2}
### SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT

Motion (by  **Sir Joseph**  Cook) agreed to - 

  >That the House, at its rising, ad journ until a date and hour to be fixed by  **Mr. Speaker,**  which time of meeting shall be notified by  **Mr. Speaker**  to each member by telegram or letter. 


 *Sitting suspended from 7.10 to 7.15 p.m.* 


{: .page-start }
page 2453

{:#debate-3}
### PRESENTATION OF ADDRESS TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES

The PRIME MINISTER (the Eight Hon. W. M. Hughes) announced the arrival of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales at the chamber entrance. 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS was then conducted to the dais by the Prime Minister, honorable members rising in their places. 


 **Mr. SPEAKER** (Eon. W. Elliot Johnson) thereupon addressed  His  Royal Highness in the following terms: - " On behalf of the House of Representatives which, elected as it is, on the broadest basis of equal adult suffrage, truly reflects the will of the people of this Commonwealth, I extend to Your Royal Highness a sincere and cordial welcome to Australia. " I have the honour to present to Your Royal Highness the following Address adopted by the unanimous vote of this House." 


 **Mr. SPEAKER** then read and presented to  His  Royal Highness a bound copy of the Address which had been resolved upon by the House of Representatives :  - "To  His  Royal Highness Edward Albert Christian' George Andrew Patrick David, Prince of Wales, Earl of Chester in the Peerage of England, Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, and Baron of Renfrew, in the Peerage of -Scotland, Lord of the Isles and Great Steward of Scotland, K.G., P.O., G.M.M.G., G.M.B.E., M.C. "May it please Your Royal Highness: "We, the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, welcome Your Royal Highness with assurances of our devoted attachment to the person and Crown of our Most Gracious Sovereign. " We recall with pride the latest visit to Australia of  His  Majesty the King before his accession to the Throne, when he was graciously pleased to open in person the inaugural session of the Australian Parliament. " The abiding memories of that epochal event have proved a potent factor in strengthening the ties of kinship and affection whichhold together the free nations of the British Empire in a union which war and danger only help to consolidate. "We therefore rejoice at the presence of  Your Royal Highness, and we offer you a warm and loyal welcome, not only as Heir Apparent to the Throne and as our, future Sovereign, but also as one who was hailed by our gallant Australian soldiers, as a comrade on the field on which so many brave men fought and died in the sacred cause of freedom. " We congratulate Your Royal Highness upon the spirit you displayed in the great war now happily ended, and we feel that we may indulge a becoming pride in the thought that the high sense of duty and responsibility by which Your Royal. Highness was animated was shared to the full by Australia's sons and daughters, who by their valour and their sacrifices contributed a worthy part to the ultimate triumph of those principles which are the glory and the pride of the British name. " Your progress throughout the Commonwealth will afford Your Royal Highness an opportunity of observing the energy, enterprise, and character of our people in the pursuit of the arts of peace. "We earnestly trust that your visit to our shores may be fraught with happiness and pleasure to Your Royal Highness, and that your mission to our people may be blessed with an abundant measure of success to the present and enduringadvantage of Australia and the Empire." 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS was pleased to make the following reply :  - 


 **Mr. Speaker** and Gentlemen of the House of Representatives, " I deeply appreciate the cordial address of welcome which you have presented to me, and I shall be happy to assure my father, the King, of your devotion to his. Throne. The Australian nation has passed through nineteen years of development since  His  Majesty inaugurated the first Australian Parliament; but the severest of all ordeals has come upon you in the last five years, and splendidly you stood the test. I congratulate you, and through you all the great people which you represent, on your gallant services to the cause of freedom and right during the long world-war. It is a pleasure to me to know that some of my old acquaintances in the field are now amongst you here. " I shall be grateful, gentlemen, if you will let me express through you to all the Commonwealth my keen pleasure at being here in Australia at last. I have long looked forward to this visit, and the magnificent welcome accorded me has made the happiest possible beginning for my tour. I hope that I may see many of you again during my travels through the Commonwealth." 

The House adjourned at 7.24 p.m., and Ministers, members, the clerks of the House, and  *Hansard*  officers in attendance were then presented by  **Mr. Speaker**  to  His  Royal Highness. 

