---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1963-04-10
year: 1963
session: 1
page_start: 547
parliament: 24
file_id: 19630410_reps_24_hor38
debates:
---



----

9. The development of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories will be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961. 

10. Research and development is carried out in the fields of bacteriology, virology, biochemistry and immunology and is related to both human and veterinary preparations. 11 and 12. The Government received approaches to purchase the laboratories some three years ago and decided then that the laboratories should continue under Commonwealth control. These approaches have not been renewed. The laboratories are now operated by a commission established under the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961. 

13. Yes. The laboratories provide services which cannot be obtained elsewhere in Australia and some diagnostic preparations and antisera are marketed at a loss due to the small volume of sales. 

Analgesics. 


 **Mr. Ward** asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice - 

What was the outcome of discussions between the Commonwealth and State health authorities on the form, content, availability and unrestricted consumption of analgesics? 


 **Mr. Swartz.-** The Minister for Health has furnished the following reply: - 

The opinion of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians has been sought on this question. Until the recommendations of the college have been received it is not proposed to take any further action regarding the form, content, availability and unrestricted consumption of analgesics. I have already warned the public concerning the dangers of over-consumption of analgesics. 


 **Mr. Webb** asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice - 

1.  rs  it a fact that warnings have been issued by the National Health and Medical Research Council against the harmful effects of drugs containing phenacetin and codeine when used to excess? 

2. Is any move being made compulsorily to restrict their use? 

3. Has an expression of opinion on these drugs been sought from the Royal Australasian College of Physicians? 

4. If so, what was the result? 


 **Mr. Swartz.** -  The Minister for Health has furnished the following reply: - 

1. Yes, in connexion with phenacetin, but the extent of codeine over-consumption has yet to be analysed in detail. 

2. No. 

3. Yes. 

4. The Royal Australasian College of Physicians still has the matter under consideration and has requested from my department statistical data regarding imports, exports, and the consumption of analgesics in Australia, in order that the college will have full information to allow the problem to be analysed on a completely scientific basis. 

Taxation. 


 **Mr. Ward** asked the Treasurer, upon notice - 

1. Are costs, including fares and accommodation incurred in travelling abroad by persons seeking to expand export business, an allowable deduction for taxation purposes on the basis of £2 deduction for every £1 expended? 

2. If so, when was this tax concession introduced? 

3. What is the estimated cost of this concession to the Commonwealth since its introduction? 


 **Mr. Harold** Holt. - The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follows: - 

1. If an overseas visit is made - (a) by a person ordinarily carrying out duties in Australia, and (b) for the purpose of promoting the export of goods from Australia, a deduction is generally authorized on the basis mentioned in relation to fares but not in respect of the cost of accommodation. 

2. The allowance commenced to operate in respect of amounts incurred as from 1st July, 1961. 

3. Income tax returns for the first year of operation of the concession, viz., the income year 1961-62 are only now being assessed and statistics from these returns have not yet been tabulated. The cost of the concession in the first full year of operation is accordingly not yet known. 


 **Mr. Ward** asked the Treasurer, upon notice - 

Are dividends received by a company from its investments in other undertakings taxable in the hands of the recipient company? 


 **Mr. Harold** Holt - The answer to the honorable member's question  is as  follows: - 

Dividends received by a company are assessable income for the purposes of income tax but, in the case of a resident company, a rebate of tax is allowed. The rebate is based upon the dividends included in the taxable income of the recipient company and is calculated at the average rate of tax payable by that company. In the case of a public company the broad effect is to remove liability for tax on dividends received but undistributed income tax may be payable on dividends received by a private company if that private company does not make a sufficient distribution of its income. 

Australian Council of School Organizations. 


 **Mr.** Webb asked the Treasurer, upon notice - 

1. Has he given consideration to the request of the Australian Council of School Organizations for an annual grant of £5,000 to help meet the cost of organization conferences, including the fares and expenses of State delegates who attend? 

2. If so, what is his decision? 


 **Mr. Harold** Holt- The answer to the: honorable member's question is  as  follows: - 1 and 2. In accordance with the policy followed by successive governments in dealing with requests of this kind, the Australian Council of School Organizations has been advised that financial assistance cannot be granted towards the cost of organization conferences. 

