---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1935-04-11
year: 1935
session: 1
page_start: 1261
parliament: 14
file_id: 19350411_reps_14_146
debates:
  - title: "ASSENT TO BILLS"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "BILLS RETURNED FROM THE SENATE"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "IMMIGRATION BILL 1935"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "MEAT EXPORTS"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "QUESTIONS WITHOUT NOTICE"
        id: "#subdebate-4-0"
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
  - title: "SEAT OF GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURT BILL 1934"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
      - title: "Second Reading"
        id: "#subdebate-6-0"
  - title: "CARRIAGE BY AIR BILL 1935"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "PATENTS BILL 1935"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
      - title: "Second Reading"
        id: "#subdebate-8-0"
  - title: "COPYRIGHT BILL 1935"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
      - title: "Second Reading"
        id: "#subdebate-9-0"
  - title: "HOUR OF MEETING"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-11"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "PETROL COMMISSION: REPORT"
        id: "#subdebate-11-0"
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-12"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
      - title: "Conduct of Business - Broadcasting Commission"
        id: "#subdebate-12-0"
---

* [ASSENT TO BILLS](#debate-0)
* [BILLS RETURNED FROM THE SENATE](#debate-1)
* [IMMIGRATION BILL 1935](#debate-2)
* [MEAT EXPORTS](#debate-3)
* [QUESTION](#debate-4)
    * [QUESTIONS WITHOUT NOTICE](#subdebate-4-0)
* [PAPERS](#debate-5)
* [SEAT OF GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURT BILL 1934](#debate-6)
    * [Second Reading](#subdebate-6-0)
* [CARRIAGE BY AIR BILL 1935](#debate-7)
* [PATENTS BILL 1935](#debate-8)
    * [Second Reading](#subdebate-8-0)
* [COPYRIGHT BILL 1935](#debate-9)
    * [Second Reading](#subdebate-9-0)
* [HOUR OF MEETING](#debate-10)
* [QUESTION](#debate-11)
    * [PETROL COMMISSION: REPORT](#subdebate-11-0)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-12)
    * [Conduct of Business - Broadcasting Commission](#subdebate-12-0)


----


 **Mr.** Speaker  (Hon.  G. J.  Bell) took the chair at  2.30  p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-0}
### ASSENT TO BILLS

Assent to the following bills reported :  - 

  >Stales Tax Assessment Bill (No.1 ) 1 935. 
  >
  >Sales Tax Assessment Bill (No. 9) 1935. 
  >
  >Sales Tax Bill (No. 9) 1935. 
  >
  >Wheat Growers Relief Bill 1935. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-1}
### BILLS RETURNED FROM THE SENATE

The following bills were returned from the Senate without amendment or requests :  - 

  >Fort Augusta to Red Hill Railway Bill 1935. 
  >
  >Soldier Settlement Loans (Financial Agreement) Bill 1935. 
  >
  >Supplementary Appropriation Bill 1933-34. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-2}
### IMMIGRATION BILL 1935

Bill returned from the Senate with a message intimating that it had agreed to the amendment made by the House of Representatives. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-3}
### MEAT EXPORTS

##### Dr EARLE PAGE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Commerce &middot; Cowper &middot; CP</small>

--  *byleave*  - I wish to announce to the House that I have to-day received advice from the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Lyons)**  that, as the result of discussions with the British Government, an agreement has been arrived at whereby  56,000  cwt. of chilled beef will be admitted to the United Kingdom during the current quarter instead of the  30,000  cwt. originally suggested by the British Government. This total was arrived at after careful investigation and inquiry by departmental officers as to the quantity available for expert. It represents an amount which will permit of the shipment of the whole of the chilled beef available in Australia. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-4}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-4-0}
#### QUESTIONS WITHOUT NOTICE

##### Dr EARLE PAGE:<br><small class="text-muted">CP</small>

-- I desire to intimate to honorable members that the Government does not propose to answer any questions without notice, because it wishes to have certain business sent to the Senate. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-5}
### PAPERS

The following papers were presented :  - 

  >Northern Territory - Report on Administration for year 1933-34. 
  >
  >Arbitration (Public Service) Act - Determination by the Arbitrator,&amp;c. - No. 4 of 1935 - Federated Public Service Assistants' Association of Australia. 

{: .page-start }
page 1261

{:#debate-6}
### SEAT OF GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURT BILL 1934

{:#subdebate-6-0}
#### Second Reading

##### Dr EARLE PAGE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister &middot; Cowper &middot; CP</small>

--  I move - 

  >That the bill be now read a  second time. 

The object of this billis to make it clear that the jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory by the Seat of Government Supreme Court Act  1933,  will be exercisable in relation to the Territory of Jervis Bay. 

Section  11  of the principal act provides that the Supreme Court shall, in all matters arising under any law of the territory, and generally, in relation to the territory, have certain specified original and appellate jurisdiction. The expression " the territory " is defined by the act to mean the Territory for the Seat of Government. The latter expression, however, does not, in itself, include the Territory of Jervis Bay, and it is doubtful whether the provisions of any other act are effective to give to the expression a constructionwhich would include the Territory of Jervis Bay. 

The jurisdiction given  to  the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory by the principal act was in substitution for the jurisdiction given tothe High Court by sections  30b  and  34a  of the Judiciary Act  1903-1927.  The latter jurisdiction, in its turn, was in substitution for that conferred on the High Court by section  8  of the Seat of Government 

Acceptance Act 1909. The jurisdiction given by the last-mentioned act was also, by virtue of section 4 (3) of the Jervis Bay Territory Acceptance Act 1915, exercisable in relation to the Territory of Jervis Bay. 

Neither in sections 30b and 34a of the Judiciary Act, nor in the Seat of Government Supreme Court Act, is there any express provision making those enactments applicable to the Territory of Jervis Bay. It may be that section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1932 operates to make the Seat of Government Supreme Court Act apply to the Territory of Jervis Bay. There is, however, considerable doubt as to whether this is so, and for that reason it is clearly necessary to extend the jurisdiction of the court in express terras. That is all that the bill purports to do. 

##### Mr BLACKBURN:<br><small class="text-muted">Bourke</small>

.- Having examined the bill, it seems to me to be a necessary measure, and one of some urgency. I, therefore, support it. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 

Bill -  *by leave*  - read a third time. 

{: .page-start }
page 1262

{:#debate-7}
### CARRIAGE BY AIR BILL 1935


 *In committee:* Consideration resumed from 10th April (vide page 1230). 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 

Schedules, preamble title agreed to. 

Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

Bill -  *by leave*  - read a third time. 

{: .page-start }
page 1262

{:#debate-8}
### PATENTS BILL 1935

{:#subdebate-8-0}
#### Second Reading


 **Mr. HUGHES** (North Sydney- Vice- 

President of the Executive Council) [2.42]. - I move - 

  >That the bill be now read a second time. 

Under the Patents Act, power is conferred on the High Court or the Supreme Court of the State in which the Patent Officeis situated to hear appeals and to deal with various matters arising under the act. Under section 30 of the act, however, theSupreme Court only may rectify any entry in the Register of Patents. That is the only case in which the framers of the Patents Act drew any distinction between the powers of the High Court and those of the Supreme Court. Section 4 of the act defines the " Supreme Court " as the Supreme Court of the State in which the Patent Office is situated, or a judge thereof. As the Patents Office is no longer situated in a State, but is now in the Territory for the Seat of Government, the definition of "the Supreme Court " requires amendment. It is proposed that the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory shall have jurisdiction in the various matters arising under the act. Previously, applications could be made to the Supreme Court of the State of Victoria, or the High Court, but now it is proposed that applications may be made to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory at Canberra, or the High Court. As the High Court visits the various capita] cities periodically, applicants may approach the High Court in any capital city. Clause 3 of the bill confers on the High Court power to rectify any entry in the Register of Patents. This amendment will bring section 30 into harmony with the rest of the act. The amendments are merely formal and have been necessitated by the removal of the Patents Office to Canberra. 

##### Mr BLACKBURN:<br><small class="text-muted">Bourke</small>

.- The introduction of this bill is consequential upon certain changes resulting from the transfer of the Patents Office to the seat of Government at Canberra, and I recommend it to the House. 

##### Mr LAZZARINI:<br><small class="text-muted">Werriwa</small>

.- As this measure has reference to the taking of legal proceedings under the principal act I direct the attention of the Government to a weakness in this regard which I think should be rectified. I understand that after a patent has been granted the patentee, in the event of his patent rights being infringed or his patent copied, may obtain a declaration from the Commissioner of Patents to that effect; but, unfortunately, he is unable, without taking legal action, to obtain any redress against those who commit the  offence.  In the case of a poor man this  is a great hardship. A gentleman named Baxter, interested in the boot manufacturing business at Goulburn, patented several of his inventions but his patents were subsequently infringed both in Australia and overseas. Although he obtained a declaration from the Commissioner of Patents to this effect he was unable to obtain any redress except by incurring the expense of protracted legal proceedings through the Supreme Court and probably through the Privy Council ; and he had not sufficient money to do so. Comparatively poor people cannot possibly face expense of that kind. I ask the Government to consider whether provision cannot be made in the principal act to protect patentees in the case of the infringement of their rights. With the law as it is, patentees who are without substantial means are frequently robbed of their rights by moneyed people, and I think an amendment of the act should be introduced to protect them from such an injustice. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">West Sydney</small>

-- I understand that the amendments of the principal act provided for in this bill are consequent upon the transfer of the central administration of the Patents Department from Melbourne to Canberra, and that it is now proposed that patentees, in certain circumstances, shall be permitted to invoke the aid of the High Court in place of that of the Supreme Court of Victoria. Would it not be possible to allow the Supreme Court of Victoria, and also the Supreme Courts of the other States, for that matter, to deal with these matters in so far as they affect the residents within those States, and so avoid placing upon those who seek the aid of the court the expense of coming to Canberra? I understand that, although the High Court visits the capital cities of the various States from time to time, litigation before it is more expensive than litigation before the lower courts. It would straighten out the difficulties arising in matters of this kind. Rather than restrict the scope of litigants is it not possible to give them the opportunity to test their rights in all the States? 

##### Mr HUGHES:<br><small class="text-muted">VicePresident of the Executive Council &middot; North Sydney &middot; UAP</small>

. -in  *reply*  - I appreciate the points raised by the honorable member for West Sydney  **(Mr.**  Beasley), and the honorable member for Warriwa  **(Mr. Lazzarini).**  Whatever disabilities patentees may at present suffer will not be affected prejudicially by this measure. It is admitted that the bill does not  go  to the root of the subject. The honorable member for Werriwa is quite aware of that, as he suggested  that at some  future date a bill should be introduced to remove some of  the  disabilities under  which  patentees and prospective patentees labour. But the honorable member was in error in supposing that  in  any circumstances the Commissioner informs a patentee that his patent  has been  infringed. The Commissioner  does not  do  that. 

##### Mr Lazzarini:

--  Then I have been misinformed. 

##### Mr HUGHES:

-- Infringements  are  determined by the court, and not by the Commissioner. Honorable members will appreciate the fact that this measure has been introduced for a specific purpose, and is one of judicial administration only. It has arisen solely in consequence of the transfer of the Patent Office from Melbourne to Canberra. I shall bring  the  remarks of the honorable member under the notice of my colleague  the  Acting Attorney-General. 

The honorable member for West Sydney made certain observations concerning the Supreme Court of Victoria. That court could be approached in the past only because the Patent Office was situated in Victoria. It is more convenient for proceedings  to  be taken where the register is. The Patent Office having been transferred to Canberra, Parliament can hardly empower the Supreme Court in one State to take proceedings without empowering all supreme courts in Australia to do so. I shall bring under the notice  of  the Acting Attorney-General the points raised concerning the Patents Act. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 

Bill -  *by leave*  - read a third time. 

{: .page-start }
page 1264

{:#debate-9}
### COPYRIGHT BILL 1935

{:#subdebate-9-0}
#### Second Reading

##### Mr HUGHES:<br><small class="text-muted">VicePresident of the Executive Council &middot; North Sydney &middot; UAP</small>

.- I  move - 

  >That the bill be now read a second time. 

The section proposed to be inserted in the Copyright Act 1912-1933 by clause 2 of  the bill  provides a remedy in case of groundless threats of legal proceedings by  persons claiming  to be owners of copyright.  In  1909, it was found necessary  to insert section  91a in the Patents Act  dealing with  groundless threats by owners  of patents, and in  1919  a  similar section,  section  100a,  was  inserted in the Trade  Marks Act as  regards groundless threats by registered proprietors of trade marks. The  Royal  'Commission on Performing Right recommended that a section on the lines of 91a of the Patents Act be inserted  in the  Copyright. Act. The matter which gives rise to the present amendment is, however, not the recommendation of the royal commission, but a case which was brought under notice after the last federal, elections. Briefly the facts of the caac  are  these. At the last election, several, candidates stood for a certain seat, including two candidates, whom I shall designate A and B, respectively. Each of these candidates maintained that he, and he alone, represented a particular party. " A " printed " How to Vote " cards showing how electors favoring that party should vote. " B " issued " How  to  Vote " cards for supporters of the same party, but showing a different order of preference. Prior to polling day " A " made application to the Registrar  of  Copyrights for the registration of copyright in his " How to Vote " card. He duly received an acknowledgment of his application. On polling day, persons acting on behalf of "A", accompanied by a police officer, went to the distributors  of  " B's " " How to Vote " cards and told them  that  " A " was the owner of the copyright in the " How to Vote " card for that particular party, and, if they did not cease distributing " B's " cards, action would be taken against them under the copyright law. The threat of proceedings had the desired effect - " B's " agents retired from the field. Representations  were  then made to the Government to institute proceedings against "A" for making groundless threats of legal proceedings, but no action was possible, as the copyright law, unlike the patent and trade marks law, provided no remedy to the injured party in such cases. The present bill has been introduced to provide a remedy in such cases. 

In moving the second reading of the bill in the Senate, my colleague said - 

  >I have not given the names of the candidates or the party in whose interests they were standing. 1 may say, however, that neither candidate was successful in his candidature. 

The bill is to provide a remedy for infringements of the Copyright Act, and gives to the holder of a copyright, similar rights to those enjoyed by  a  patentee under the Patents Act and the owner of  a  trade mark under the Trade Marks Act. 

##### Mr GARDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Cook</small>

.- I endorse what has been said by the Minister  **(Mr. Hughes),**  though I view the matter from a different angle. I have had a good deal to do with copyright, and have received threatening letters from persons who claim to hold the copyright of various publications, but who, when inquiries were made, were found to have no rights whatever. If it is proposed to hold a concert in a town hall anywhere these people make similar claims. The organizers are told that they must not hold their concert without first submitting a programme to the claimants, so that they may see whether or not there is anything on the programme over which they hold copyright. Organizations with which I am connected have challenged these claimants again and again, and we have found that, out of every 100 claims they make, they actually possess rights in regard to not more than five. Every B-class broadcasting station is being robbed to-day by the same interests. When this bill is passed the public will enjoy some measure of protection, because the onus will be on the claimant to prove his claim. 

##### Mr BLACKBURN:<br><small class="text-muted">Bourke</small>

--  I doubt whether the bill will provide all the relief it is supposed to, but it is nevertheless desirable that people should be protected against the threats of persons who claim to possess copyrights, but who do not, in fact, possess them. If  a  person  possesses actual copyrights - and I do not think that mere registration of copyright gives it - he will be able to take proceedings against anybody who, he alleges, infringes them. However, he will be forbidden to threaten proceedings unless, at the earliest opportunity, he actually takes them. If he offends against this provision, the person injured by the threat will be able to obtain legal redress by injunction, or, possibly, damages. In the case referred to by the Minister  **(Mr. Hughes)**  it is difficult to see how the injured person could have obtained damages, I regard the bill as a step in the right direction, and I commend  the Government for having brought it down. 

##### Mr BERNARD CORSER:<br><small class="text-muted">Wide Bay</small>

-- I do not think that the bill will be of as much use as it should be, unless it will prevent organizations such as the Performing Right Association from harassing the organizers of  concerts,  &amp;c, in country districts. I have frequently received letters from persons who have received threats from the Performing Right Association in respect of the performance of music which they have bought and. paid for themselves. I cannot see what rights the association can possess in such cases. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. ' 

Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 

Bill -  *"by leave*  - read a third time. 

{: .page-start }
page 1265

{:#debate-10}
### HOUR OF MEETING

Motion (by  **Dr. Earle**  Page) agreed to - 

  >That the House at its rising adjourn until 5 p.m. this day. 

{: .page-start }
page 1265

{:#debate-11}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-11-0}
#### PETROL COMMISSION: REPORT

Debate resumed from the 8th April  *{vide*  page 930), on motion by  **Dr. Earle**  Page - 

  >That the paper be printed. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">West Sydney</small>

-- I move - 

  >That all the words after " That " be omitted with a view to insert in lieu thereof the  words  : " an address be presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, praying  His Excellency  to refer the inquiry bade to  His. 
  >
  >Commissioners with the request that the profits made by the major oil companies be disclosed, in their report, and that definite recommendations for action by  His  Excellency's Ministers and the Parliament be provided." 

Few members of this House, or of the public generally, can feel satisfied with the report of the Royal Commission on Petrol and Oil, which was tabled in this. House recently. I have to confess that,, owing to the size of both the majority and minority reports, I have not been able to study them fully; but, from an. examination of the summaries, it is evident not only that the commission cost the public a great deal of money without having achieved anything worth while, but also that the reports are, in some important respects, open to grave distrust and suspicion. The commission has cost the taxpayers £12,049. 

##### Mr Garden:

-- That is apart from legal fees. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:

-- That is so. We may take it that the total cost of the commission is not less than £14,000. The  chairman  collected £2,300 in fees, and one of the members,  **Mr. Hancock,**  received £2,700. Generally speaking, the recommendations of the commission are meagre and inconclusive, and do not reveal the iniquities which surround the operations of those engaged in the petrol and oil industry in Australia. On one .phase of the report, at least, suspicion rests, namely, that in regard to the evidence given  *in camera*  concerning the profits of the major oil companies. On page 24, the  **chairman, Mr. Lamb,**  declares in his summary that his two colleagues, Messrs. Gunn and Hancock, prevented him from disclosing that evidence, and he remarks that the value of the report must be, to that extent, impaired. On the 25th February, 1935, his colleagues signed the following direction : - 

  >We direct that, in terms of section 6d (3) of the Royal Commissions Act, the evidence given in private before the commission shall not be published except insofar as the same is published in our report. 

Incidentally, we have to thank the former Attorney-General,  **Mr. Latham,**  for having had that section inserted in the act, despite our strong protests at the time. On this point,  **Mr. Lamb**  comments -  lt was obvious that it was not the intention of the legislature that all the individual accounts of the companies should be concealed, otherwise the legislature would have said so. 

That statement calls for serious thought on the part of honorable members, and indicates that legislation of this character provided an opportunity - in this case, grasped by Messrs. Gunn and Hancock - to avoid disclosing the exact profits of these companies. They contended that the Attorney-General of  the day then  declared  that  in no case should any of the profits be disclosed ; but  **Mr. Lamb**  claimed  that  if  the  legislature had been of the opinion that no disclosure of profits should be made, it would have definitely said so. When the commission was appointed, the oil-and-petrol question was prominently in the minds of the public, and great interest was being  shown in it by the  primary producers because of the large quantity, of oil and petrol used  by  them on .the farms. This ouse was unanimous as to the necessity for an inquiry, and considered that the terms of reference should be so drawn up that when the report was furnished  the  public would be informed precisely as to the part this combine  was  playing  in  the direction of maintaining the high price of petrol  and  oil.  **Mr. Lamb**  further stated - 

  >With regard to profits, it seems to me that the profits are either reasonable or unreasonable. If they are reasonable, there could not be any prejudice to the company as the result of their publication. If they are unreasonable, I cannot see that it would be unfair to publish them. 

That is a plain way of putting the  view that  would be expressed by the average person who is interested in this combine. If its profits are reasonable,  *why*  should we not be put in possession of that information ? Most people realize and accept the view that these companies do not trade for philanthropic purposes - that they expect a reasonable return on their outlay. But  if  their profits are unreasonable, the public is entitled to know all about them. In the following sentence,  **Mr. Lamb**  virtually sounds .the death-knell of inquiries by royal commissions, and admits the failure of Parliament to grapple with combines. On page  24  of his summary, he Bays - 

  >I do not think that satisfactory information can be furnished on the matters on which we have to make inquiry and report,  without  disclosing the extent of the total trade, the capital employed and the profits made by these companies which dominate the trade. If these matters be not stated in the report, the value of the report must, in my opinion, be to that extent impaired. 

Once again vested interests have been able to dominate the affairs of this country. In effect, these interests nullify the power which the Parliament is alleged to possess. It is represented to the people that their welfare arid interests are safeguarded by the legislation passed from time to time; but this report discloses that the oil interests can exploit the community, and the Parliament is impotent. The instruments set up by the Parliament have apparently been tampered with, and what amounts to' a " white-washing " report of some  200  pages of  150,000  words, costing thousands of pounds, is so much waste paper. Only one recommendation of any note has been made. This is by  **Mr. Lamb,**  who, on page  22  of his summary, suggests that  all  companies acting simply as marketing organizations for overseas companies should be taxed on a percentage of their total receipts. Obviously,  **Mr. Lamb**  made that recommendation because he was unable to probe to the bottom, and obtain the correct profits of these companies. The profits remain hidden, cloaked by the interlocking of the Australian organization with overseas groups. 

The reports have camouflaged what this Parliament desired to be brought to the surface. Mention is made here and there of combines. A document known as the "White products policy" is commented upon, and it is stated that at least three companies adhere to it. It is also mentioned that a combine of the companies was formed to devise suitable or expedient action by all. But no measures have been brought before the Parliament for the purpose of bringing these combines to heel. It is  a  waste of money to add to the already extravagant cost of the commission the expense of having the report printed, in view of its utter failure  to submit practical recommendations on which the Parliament could act. Evidently, in the future, Parliament must undertake these inquiries itself; it cannot shirk that duty much longer. 

I notice that, following the publication of the commission's report, the general manager of the Shell Company stated that he refused to accept the statement of  **Mr. Lamb**  with reference to the " White products policy ". He declared that these organizations did not adopt the practice alleged by  **Mr. Lamb.**  Only a week ago, I brought under the notice of honorable members the case of a garage proprietor in the Liverpool district, in which the Shell and Vacuum Oil Companies had definitely refused to supply petrol and oil to him. He had installed a pump to enable him to supply the petrol distributed by another company. It was not a case in which the proprietor was setting up in business for the first time, for he had been carrying on operations in that locality for a lengthy period. He merely vacated premises in a back street, and established a bigger garage and repairing plant in a more prominent position. He had been handling the products of the Shell and Vacuum Oil Companies for a number of years. He added other pumps for the purpose of retailing Purr-pull and other brands of petrol, and although he was prepared to pay cash for his supplies, and had installed extra pumps at his own cost, the combine withdrew the ordinary supplies which he had been purchasing for years, and refused to sell him any of its products. In the face of this the manager of the company in Melbourne, in discussing  **Mr. Lamb's**  report, regarding white as against black products, has had the brazen effrontery to declare in the press that he refuses to accept the declaration of the Commissioner, and that he and his company are willing to allow all who are prepared to pay for its products to handle them effectively just as they would handle those of any other company. 

Parliament had given specific instructions to the commissioners in the terms of reference, which were that they should inquire into - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Landed cost of petrol. 
1. Wholesale and retail selling prices. 
2. Capital employed in, expenditure and losses incurred, income and profits derived from such operations. 
3. Customs and excise duties and federal income taxation. 
4. Matters incidental to any of the before-mentioned matters in relation to such operations. 

Despite these clear terms, the  **chairman, Mr. Lamb,**  was forced to report - 

  >It is greatly to be regretted that the commissioners could not arrive at unanimous conclusions. They failed to agree on some vital and material points. 


 **Mr. Lamb** also reported 

There have been combines by the two groups for the purpose of regulating and increasing prices. I am of opinion that there was a combine between the companies mentioned for the following purposes: - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. 1 ) For the suppression of price-cutting. 
1. For the purpose of preventing competition between themselves. 
2. For the purpose of stifling competition from outsiders. 

Mr.Nock. - That is true. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:

-- Undoubtedly it is. Yet no definite lead was given by the commission from which action could be taken, and particularly was this so in the case of the majority report. I appeal to the House to consider quite dispassionately the reports that have been made. Despite the terms of reference the majority report gives no lead to the Parliament. Australia has spent at least ?12,000 on this commission only to be informed by these gentlemen that it must continue to be exploited. I think that, regardless of the districts from which we come, we shall all agree that the people whom we represent are being exploited by the major oil companies, and I should like to see a combined effort on the part of the whole Parliament to use every means in its power to grapple with these companies. We should deal with this oil trust in such a way as to afford an object lesson to others who also may be exploiting the public. We have not had an opportunity to get at the others; but once we set out to formulate a definite plan of action we shall find a way to deal with all of them. Not  only must the people of Australia be exploited- according to the majority report - but any effort by individuals to break the grip of the combine has been ruthlessly broken down.  **Mr. Lamb**  reported- 

I have no doubt that the lowering of prices waa done designedly to put a stop to competition from companies which were selling sundry petrols "... Prices were dropped to very low levels to dispose of competition and afterwards prices were raised. 

We are all well aware of these facts. "When the smaller companies with little capital and restricted means of distribution sought  to  compete with the combine the major companies proceeded to cut prices. Distribution of petrol supplies m Australia, with its magnificent distances, is &amp; big problem. The companies in the combine, having worked their way in and perfected a system  of  distribution, lowered prices to such an extent as to break down competition, realizing that, even if they were out  of  pocket by doing so, any loss would soon be made good once they had run their competitors off the market. Having cut them out, they immediately, as the  chairman of  the commission points out, lifted prices. 

##### Mr Clark:

-- That is going on all over the world. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:

-- And because of that we view the situation more seriously than we might otherwise be inclined to do. We are not talking merely of something that has been communicated to us. We have had personal experience of these operations, and if wo allow these companies  to  get away with these practices refusing  to  exercise the powers which we undoubtedly possess, they will continue to dip their hands into the public pockets and  to  loot the people at their own sweet will. 

I have brought before this House glaring cases  of  restraint of trade and absolute victimization. Those cases should not be allowed to continue, yet tho commissioners, in effect, have given their blessing to this despicable business by a recommendation by  **Mr. Lamb,**  which means nothing at all, and by silence on the part of his two colleagues. In one instance, at least, the commission amply justifies the statements 

I have made in this House on countless occasions of the international ramifications of high finance. Reporting on the profits of the major oil companies,  **Mr. Lamb**  said - 

  >The real profits made in the business in Australia are the profits made by the overseas company. 

That should dispose for all time of the jeers of honorable members opposite and their disbelief of the statement that finance, by its interlockings, can wield power beyond the control of this Parliament. 

In various sections of the reports, admissions are made that the commissioners have failed to grapple with the matter, and have not reported fully in the terms of reference laid down.  It is for that reason that I have moved the amendment to the motion that the report be printed. 

We should, as a Parliament, say that we do not approve of the report, that we are of the opinion that it does not disclose. as we expected it would do, the ramifications of these companies. The commissioners have not confined themselves within the terms of reference, and we should say that we are not going to allow money to be frittered away on the printing of a useless report. There should be no opposition to my amendment. I hope that the House will unanimously agree to it. I do not suppose that honorable members would be prepared at this moment to consider the appointment of a Parliamentary Select Committee; but failing that, we should at once send back the report to the men whom we appointed as commissioners to inquire into the whole matters, and remind them of their responsibilities. Parliament should declare in no uncertain way its hostility to the report. The press generally has expressed its views of the majority report in langauge almost similar to that which I have used to-day, and we may be sure that the action which I propose would commend itself to the people generally. I am confident that the public would be behind us in any effort we might make to run this combine to earth. By united action to this end we may secure some satisfaction. 

##### Mr CASEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Treasurer &middot; Corio &middot; UAP</small>

.- The report of the Petrol Commission, which forms the basis of the  amendment moved by the honorable member for "West Sydney  **(Mr. Beasley)**  is, as he has rightly said, a voluminous document, the careful study of which would entail more time than has been available to the Government in recent weeks. The Government has taken what action has been necessary and possible within the limited time at its disposal, and has referred to the appropriate authorities those sections of the report which contain criticisms and adverse views; those dealing with taxation matters have been referred to the Commonwealth .Commissioner of Taxation, those dealing with possible restraint of trade have been referred to the Attorney-General's Department, while numerous other matters. particularly that of country differential in the price of petrol and oils, have been referred to the State governments. Honorable members may rest assured that the whole report will be adequately considered by the Government within the next few months. My principal reason for speaking on this matter is to reply to the statements made by the honorable member for West Sydney  **(Mr. Beasley)**  with regard to evidence taken  *in camera.*  I assure the honorable member that it was within the power of the royal commission to take evidence in whatever manner it pleased, either in private or public; but once having accepted  *in camera*  certain evidence, such as that relating to total cost figures and accounts, it had no option but to regard it as confidential if the majority of the commission so decided, and to exclude from its report any figures based on that evidence. I am not, on behalf of the Government, either defending or attacking the oil companies or the royal commission. The royal commission may have had very good reasons for hearing certain evidence in private, but under a section of the Royal Commissions Act it is not permitted to disclose evidence taken  *in camera.*  I hold no brief for the oil companies, but I say this, at least, in their defence:  **Mr. Ewing,**  the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation, as every one knows, has certain difficulties in determining rates of tax to be imposed on oil companies in order that they may bear their just share of taxation. The oil companies were asked if they would be agreeable to the whole of the evidence taken  *in camera*  being made available to him - that is, all the figures relating to costs, profits, and accounts. All the companies agreed to this request, and the commissioner is now taking steps to obtain all of that evidence, and when it is obtained he will be in possession of a. great deal more information in regard to the operation of these companies than he has had in the past. Upon that information he will no doubt base his decision as to whether or not to apply a section of the act which enables him to put an arbitrary percentage on the total turnover as a basis for his assessment of tax. 

For the reasons which I have given it is not possible for the Government to reply in detail to the remarks of the honorable member for West Sydney. When the report has been fully considered and the Government has received reports from the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of Taxation, and the State governments, it will then be able to decide whether or not it is necessary in the public interest to go further in this matter, and whether it is necessary to appoint another royal commission or extend the life of the present one. 

Debate (on motion by  **Mr. Archdale**  Parkhill) adjourned. 

{: .page-start }
page 1269

{:#debate-12}
### ADJOURNMENT

{:#subdebate-12-0}
#### Conduct of Business - Broadcasting Commission

##### Dr EARLE PAGE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister &middot; Cowper &middot; CP</small>

-- I move - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. " 

I ask honorable members to agree to the adjournment of the House at this stage in order to permit a new noticepaper to be printed in accordance with the state of the business before the House. When the House meets again at 5 o'clock Ministers will be prepared to answer questions for a quarter of an hour, after which honorable members will be asked to proceed with notices on motion on the notice-paper. 

##### Mr FORDE:<br><small class="text-muted">Capricornia</small>

.- On behalf of the Opposition I desire to register an emphatic protest against the methods adopted by the Government in the conduct of the business of this Parliament during the past week, in the hope that in future more courteous consideration will be extended to honorable members on this side of the House. While the Opposition does not comprise the majority of members of this House, it represents a greater number of the people of Australia. The results of the last election disclose that the combined votes ofl candidates representing the United Australia party and the United Country party totalled 1,766,000 as against a total of 1,779,000 votes polled by opposing parties. This clearly shows, as I have said, that honorable members on this side of the House actually represent a greater number of Australian people than do members sitting behind the Government, lt is true, however, that, in this House the United Australia party and the United Country party combined have a majority of members. Any government that callously disregards the rights of the Opposition deserves everything that results from its discourtesy. A  litle  tact, good judgment and consideration for the views of the Opposition result in facilitating the passage of the  business  of Parliament. Within the last two days a Supply Bill, covering the expenditure of over £6,000,000, was bludgeoned through  this  House through the agency of the gag. Despite the fact that there was no organized obstruction by honorable members on this side of the House, the gag was ruthlessly applied and discussion was stifled. In endeavouring to speak to that bill honorable members were merely using their rights; when their rights were denied them they made use of the forms of the House to register their protest. 


 **Mr. SPEAKER (Hon. G. J. Bell).Order** ! Whilst the honorable member would be in order in objecting to the way in which a measure actually before the House was being dealt with, he is not in order in condemning Parliament for its action on an earlier occasion. 

##### Mr FORDE:

-- Seven months have elapsed since the election, and now, after only 38 sitting days, the Government proposes that Parliament shall go into recess for about five months. There is no necessity to force honorable members to sit up all night in order to rush legislation through this House. Yesterday after I, the Acting Leader of the Opposition, had been speaking for less than ten minutes on a bill to validate certain duties of . customs, the " gag " was applied. It is true that, later, I had another opportunity to speak, but on that oCcasIon also I was " gagged ". Surely the Acting Leader of the Opposition is entitled to greater courtesy! Like other honorable members, I had suggestions and amendments to place before the committee, but discussion was stifled by the application of the "gag". The Government has only itself to blame for the humiliation to which it was subjected in that the business of the House was taken out of its hands. On behalf of the Opposition, I emphatically protest against the callous disregard to its rights, and 1 warn the Government that if it. again attempts to conduct the business of the House along similar lines, it will find the opposition much stronger. 

##### Mr NAIRN:<br><small class="text-muted">Perth</small>

-- I desire to bring under the notice of the Government, for consideration during the recess, the desirability of appointing a representative of Western Australia to the Broadcasting Commission when appointments to that body are made about June next. The Perth Chamber of Commerce and other representative bodies in that State urge that that be done. The present five members of the commission are drawn from the eastern and more populous States. In my opinion, the outlying States are entitled to representation on this body. The emoluments of members of the commission are not high : but I am confident that a satisfactory nominee could be found in Western Australia. Commissioners resident in Melbourne and Sydney cannot be expected to have personal knowledge of the conditions which. exist in the far-flung parts of Australia, and, therefore, I urge the appointment of a representative of Western Australia. I submit this recommendation now so that it may be considered before the time arrives to make the appointments. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">West Sydney</small>

-- I take, this opportunity to acquaint the House with the reason why leave to do certain things was refused by members of this party. We refused leave as a protest against the proposed long recess. Australia is passing through the most critical period of its history and we believe that at such a time Parliament should not remain in recess for a lengthy period. Surely the Government does not believe that the members of the Cabinet have a monopoly of the brains of this Parliament. In any case, the views of the electors cannot be adequately represented if Parliament is in recess. Their representatives should be given the opportunity to assist in modelling the future policy of this country. It is not right that such important matters as trade treaties and agreements, which will vitally 'affect the welfare of the people of this country, should be entered into without Parliament having been consulted. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- The honorable member will not be in order in anticipating discussion on a motion already on the notice-paper. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:

-- I was endeavouring to show why Ave, on this side, did not agree to the proposal made by the Acting Leader of the House. In the immediate future, decisions in regard to matters of vital importance to the people of Australia will have to be made. Such subjects as the marketing of wheat, the export of meat, trade treaties and agreements as well as tariff schedules, will have to be dealt with. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- At the next sitting the honorable member will have an opportunity to refer to some of those matters. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:

-- I hope that from what I have said honorable members generally will understand the reasons which actuated the members of this party in refusing leave to the Acting Prime Minister to introduce certain measures to-day. 

##### Mr ARCHDALE PARKHILL:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Defence &middot; Warringah &middot; UAP</small>

-- As the Acting Prime Minister has indicated the need to allow time for the printing of papers in preparation for the next sitting, and as there will be further opportunities, both at question time and on the motion for the adjournment of the 

House at that sitting, to discuss the various matters which honorable members wish to bring forward, I move - 

  >That the question be now put. 

Motion agreed to. 

Original question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned at 3.50 p.m. 

