---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1936-05-20
year: 1936
session: 1
page_start: 1927
parliament: 14
file_id: 19360520_reps_14_150
debates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-0)


----

{: .page-start }
page 1986

{:#debate-0}
### ADJOURNMENT

Boulia-Winton Telephone Lini!  -  Employment of Girls by Postal Department. 

Motion (by  **Mr. Archdale**  Parkhill) proposed - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. 

##### Mr RIORDAN:<br><small class="text-muted">KENNEDY, QUEENSLAND &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931</small>

-- I desire to raise a matter which affects a large number of farmers and settlers in my electorate. Because these people are prepared to go on the land, the Postal Department, apparently, regards them  as  a " mob of suckers ", and not in their real light as producers. Representations have been made to the department  by  the Boulia and Winton Shire Councils for the erection of a proper telephone line between Boulia and Winton, a distance of about 200 miles, and these have been supported'  by  **Senator Cooper**  and myself on various occasions during the last seven months. The  Deputy  Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland wrote to the residents of this district asking what they estimated' the erection of this line would cost. They are workers and wool-growers, and not telephonic experts. During the last flood in this district a couple of persons died because weeks elapsed before medical aid could be summoned to attend to these cases. Both senator Cooper and I have tried every method to have the matter properly inquired into by the department, so as  to  obviate raising it in Parliament, but have failed. Without an inspection, the department has rejected the request. 

##### Mr Collins:

--  What telephone facilities now exist in the area? 

##### Mr RIORDAN:<br><small class="text-muted">KENNEDY, QUEENSLAND &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931</small>

-- There is a treetotree line from Winton to Middleton, but from Middleton to Boulia, there is no line of any value. In the wet season, the people in the latter area have no means of communication, and one can imagine the feelings of the womenfolk out there when storm-clouds begin to gather. Much of the money granted by this Government to different States for the purpose of relieving unemployment has been paid for chipping grass off footpaths in and around metropolitan areas, this work being done at a time when people in many country districts have not even decent telephonic or mail facilities. If this  matter  is not attended to, I shall take every opportunity throughout the remainder  of this  session to ventilate it. Surely these people are entitled to an investigation into their request before it is turned down by dictators in the Public Service. As Boulia happens to  be in an  area, however, where officers would  have  to travel by buggy and pair, no inspection is made. While I am a member of this Parliament, I shall not be a party to allowing officialdom to adopt such methods. The department has stated that this proposition would not be a. payable one, as it would cost £28,000 and the revenue therefrom would not justify such an outlay. If this line were made available, 200 subscribers would take advantage of it. Surely it is not intended that our outback country must be devoloped on a £1 for £1 subsidy basis. The Government desires people to go into remote areas to develop the country, and when they do so rewards them with isolation instead of departmental telephonic facilities. 

Reconsideration should also be given to the conditions under which certain young people are appointed to positions in the Postal Department. Some time ago a girl was employed by the department at Mareeba on the condition that her services would be continued until she reached the age of 21 years unless an examination were held in the meantime. No examination was held until the girl bad been in the service for two years. She then offered herself as a candidate for appointment, but as she was obliged to work right up to the time of the examination, she was at a disadvantage compared with other girls who sat for the examination, and did not obtain one of the best passes. When temporary employment was made available to successful candidates she was overlooked, even though she had passed the examination. Evidently the policy of the department is to employ young people when they reach the age of sixteen or eighteen years and then dismiss them when they reach the age of 21 years. That is entirely unfair. Examinations should be held for appointment at sixteen years, and eighteen years, and candidates should be allowed to sit in all country towns. Those who succeed should have priority of appointment in their own towns. As things are, country children are at a considerable disadvantage compared with those who live in the metropolitan areas. I ask that the policy of the department in connexion with the employment of these young people be reviewed. 

I have been informed that during the coming Parliamentary recess, the POStmasterGeneral intends to visit Townsville to participate in the ceremony  oil  the occasion of the official opening of the broadcasting station there. I ask that hetake the opportunity at that time to travel along the western railway line of Queensland as far as Winton, to ascertain for himself the conditions to which I have referred to-night, under which the settlers live in that area. If he does so I feel sure that he will be convinced that the telephone line for which I have asked should be provided without delay to encourage these scattered settlers who are doing their best to increase the wealth of the nation. 

##### Mr ARCHDALE PARKHILL:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Defence &middot; Warringah &middot; UAP</small>

-- I promise the honorable member for Kennedy  **(Mr. Riordan)**  that I shall place before the Postmaster-General his request for a telephone line between Winton and Boulia. I shall also bringthe  *Hansard*  report of the honorable gentleman's speech under my colleague's notice, and ask that the fullest inquiry be made into the subject. Obviously some inquiry has already been made, for the honorable member referred to an estimate that had been prepared. 

##### Mr RIORDAN:<br><small class="text-muted">KENNEDY, QUEENSLAND &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931</small>

--  No proper investigation, of the route has been made by an official of the department. 

##### Mr ARCHDALE PARKHILL:

--  *I*  shall direct the Postmaster-General's attention to that observation. If action cannot be taken to provide this facility  *T*  shall ask that the reason why be communicated to the honorable member. 

##### Mr RIORDAN:<br><small class="text-muted">KENNEDY, QUEENSLAND &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931</small>

--  The figures prepared by local people were made available toSenator Cooper by the Winton Chamberof Commerce. 

##### Mr ARCHDALE PARKHILL:

-- 1 shall also bring under the notice of the Postmaster-General the honorable member's suggestion that he should visit Winton. 

The remarks of the honorable member regarding the employment of youths and girls by the postal department will also be investigated. I assume that the honorable member is aware that certain regulations of the department provide that temporary employment of that character  shall be only for specified periods. Good reasons can be advanced for that practice. The circumstances of the employment at Mareeba of the girl mentioned by the honorable member will be reviewed. I am sure that a reasonable explanation of the whole case will be forthcoming. I assure the honorable gentleman that it is not the policy of the Postal Department to discard inconsiderately the young people whom it employs in a temporary capacity. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned at 12.15 a.m. (Thursday). 

