---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1936-12-09
year: 1936
session: 1
page_start: 2883
parliament: 14
file_id: 19361209_reps_14_152
debates:
  - title: "ASSENT TO BILLS"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "BRITISH CONSTITUTIONAL CRISIS"
        id: "#subdebate-1-0"
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [ASSENT TO BILLS](#debate-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-1)
    * [BRITISH CONSTITUTIONAL CRISIS](#subdebate-1-0)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-2)


----

The House of Representatives, on the 4th December, adjourned until a day and hour to be fixed by  **Mr. Speaker,**  and notified by him to each honorable member. The House met pursuant to such notification. 


 **Mr. SPEAKER (Hon. G. J. Bell)** took the chair at 10.30 a.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 2883

{:#debate-0}
### ASSENT TO BILLS

Assent to the following bills reported : - 

Customs Tariff (No. 2) 1036. 

Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) 

Bill (No. 2) 1936. Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) (No. 

States Grants (Unemployment Relief) Bill 1936. 

Commonwealth Public Service Bill 1930. Financial Relief Bill (No. 3) 1930. Bills of Exchange Bill 1936. Trade Harks Bill 1936. Customs Tariff (No. 3) 1936. 

Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) 

Bill (No. 3) 1936. Sales Tax Amendment Bill 1936. Trade Agreement (France) Bill 1936. Customs Tariff (No. 4) 1936. 

 Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Bill (No. 4) 1936. 

Customs Tariff (Industries Preservation) Bill 1936. 

Papua and New Guinea Bounties Bill  1930.  Customs Tariff (Papua and New Guinea 

Preference) 1936. Customs Bill 1936. Coinage Bill 193G. Commonwealth Bail ways Bill 1936. Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1936. Petroleum Oil Search Bill (No. 2) 1936. Colonial Light Dues Collection Bill 1936. Colonial Light Dues (Rates) Bill 1936. Commonwealth Public Works Committee 

Bill 1936. Air Navigation Bill 1936. Wine Overseas Marketing Bill 1936. 

{: .page-start }
page 2884

{:#debate-1}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-1-0}
#### BRITISH CONSTITUTIONAL CRISIS

Question of the King's  MARRIAGE 

##### Mr LYONS:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Wilmot &middot; UAP</small>

-- It is not the intention of the Government to submit any business to the Parliament to-day, or to reply to questions without notice. I ask leave to make a brief statement of the reason for the recall of honorable members. 

Leave granted. 

##### Mr LYONS:

-- Shortly after the Parliament rose last week, the possibilities of a serious constitutional problem relating to the suggested marriage of  His  Majesty the King became apparent. The position is still uncertain, though we all profoundly hope that a crisis may be averted. In. the circumstances, it seemed wise to the Government to recall honorable members, as we would desire to be in a position to consult the Parliament without delay in relation to any course of action which proved to be necessary. 

As the matter stands, and pending His Gracious Majesty's decision, parliamentary discussions could do nothing but harm. 

All that I need say as to the particular issues involved is, that the Commonwealth Government concurs in the decision of the Government of the United Kingdom not to legislate for something In the nature of a morganatic marriage. 

In a state of affairs so delicate, so fraught with possibilities of good or ill for the future of all of us, a respectful and sympathetic silence in Parliament is the best contribution we can offer to a happy solution. May' God strengthen His Majesty, and guide his decision aright. 

{: .page-start }
page 2884

{:#debate-2}
### ADJOURNMENT

Motion (by  **Mr. Lyons)**  proposed - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. 

##### Mr CURTIN:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

.- The Parliament nas been called together to-day so that the Government might consult with' it on a matter of supreme moment to Australia and to the other dominions comprising the British Commonwealth of Nations, as well as to the United Kingdom itself. That consultation, I think, should commence with a full, complete, and unfettered intimation to the Parliament of the whole extent -of the communications that have passed between- the Prime Minister and the Government of the United Kingdom. 

Opposition Members.  -  Hear, hear .' 

##### Mr CURTIN:

-- All the facts, so far as it is possible for the Parliament to have them given to it at present, should now be made available. The Opposition holds strong views upon this very difficult and, as the Prime Minister has said, delicate matter. To begin with, it says that there must be no coercion, by Ministers of this dominion, or - of any other dominion, of the King, in the choosing, of his wife. 

Opposition Members.  -  Hear, hear ! 

##### Mr CURTIN:

-- The King, on the other hand, must not ask Parliament for any special legislation to suit his convenience in the choosing of a wife. He must choose his wife from among those ladies who may lawfully be married to him as the law stands at present. In. respect of any matter involving legislation, the King must accept the advice of his Ministers of State. Furthermore, we would object to tho King or to the Parliaments, in the King's choice of a wife, arranging to confer upon that lady a lesser status than that of Queen. 

Opposition Members.  -  Hear, hear ! 

##### Mr CURTIN:

-- The King must not be permitted to alter in any way the status of the lady whom he would choose to be bis wife; because he is the King, his wife should and must be the Queen. Furthermore, the King must be fully prepared to accept all the natural and logical consequences of his marriage. If there be children of that marriage, then they must come in the first line of succession to the British throne. The Opposition will leave the King unfettered in the choice of his wife. It will not agree that his selection in that matter should be impaired by any influence of any sort. But the King must accept full responsibility to his conscience and to the Empire for the choice that he makes. We shall not interfere with him, but we shall not convenience him, in the choosing of his wife. This Australian Labour party hopes that the present King will remain upon the throne of England. 

Opposition Members.  -  Hear, hear ! 

##### Mr CURTIN:

-- It desires to remain, as it willremain, loyal to King Edward VIII. 

##### Mr LYONS:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Wilmot &middot; UAP</small>

--  **Mr. Speaker-** 


 **Mr. SPEAKER (Hon. G. J. Bell).The** right honorable gentleman will close the debate. 

##### Mr LYONS:

-- I had hoped to do so. 

##### Mr BEASLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">West Sydney</small>

-- There is one point that I want to make on this motion for the adjournment of the House. 

Motion (by  **Sir Archdaleparkhill)**  proposed - 

  >That the question be now put. 

##### Mr Beasley:

--  This is a fine way to induce us to remain silent. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Order ! The honorable member for West Sydney is out of order in interjecting when I am on my feet and about to put a question to the House. 

##### Mr Beasley:

--  We have been brought here- 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Order ! I ask honorable members to be silent. 

##### Mr Ward:

--  Matters have not progressed as the Prime Minister expected. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- The honorablemember for East Sydney must preservesilence. 

##### Mr James:

--  You gagged me on another occasion,  **Mr. Speaker,**  and would not allow me to mention the King's name. 


 *Honorable members interjecting,* 


##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Order! I ask honorable members to observe the respect that is due to the Chair, and to maintain order when a question is being put. 

##### Mr Beasley:

--  The Government is not showing us any respect. I would not have given leave for any statement to be made had I known that it was to be under these conditions. I shall not again give leave. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Order ! 

Question put - 

That the question be now put. 

The House divided. (Mr. Speaker - Hon. G. J. Bell.) .

AYES: 40

NOES: 23

Majority .. ..17 

AYES

NOES

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 

Original question put. The House divided. (Mr. Speaker - How.G.J. Bell.)

AYES: 42

NOES: 21

Majority . . 21 

AYES

NOES

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned  at  10.50 a.m. 

