---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1925-07-15
year: 1925
session: 3
page_start: 1090
parliament: 9
file_id: 19250715_reps_9_110
debates:
  - title: "ASSENT TO BILLS"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEAVE OF ABSENCE"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: leave of absence
    subdebates:
  - title: "HOUR OF MEETING"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ORDER OF BUSINESS"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: order of business
    subdebates:
  - title: "PERSONAL EXPLANATIONS"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: personal explanation
    subdebates:
      - title: "Pairs"
        id: "#subdebate-5-0"
  - title: "SHIPPING DISPUTE"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Formal Motion of Adjournment"
        id: "#subdebate-6-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "AIR-SHIP SERVICE"
        id: "#subdebate-7-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "POSTMASTER-GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT"
        id: "#subdebate-8-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "ENTERTAINMENTS TAX"
        id: "#subdebate-9-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "REPATRIATION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS"
        id: "#subdebate-10-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-11"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "DEFENCE DEPARTMENT"
        id: "#subdebate-11-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-12"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "NAVAL AUXILIARY SERVICE"
        id: "#subdebate-12-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-13"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "EXPORTOF CANNED PINEAPPLES"
        id: "#subdebate-13-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-14"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "AUSTRALIAN LOANS"
        id: "#subdebate-14-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-15"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "DEATHS DUE TO BATH HEATERS"
        id: "#subdebate-15-0"
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-16"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "RED HILL TO PORT AUGUSTA RAILWAY SURVEY"
        id: "#subdebate-16-0"
---

* [ASSENT TO BILLS](#debate-0)
* [PAPERS](#debate-1)
* [LEAVE OF ABSENCE](#debate-2)
* [HOUR OF MEETING](#debate-3)
* [ORDER OF BUSINESS](#debate-4)
* [PERSONAL EXPLANATIONS](#debate-5)
    * [Pairs](#subdebate-5-0)
* [SHIPPING DISPUTE](#debate-6)
    * [Formal Motion of Adjournment](#subdebate-6-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-7)
    * [AIR-SHIP SERVICE](#subdebate-7-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-8)
    * [POSTMASTER-GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT](#subdebate-8-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-9)
    * [ENTERTAINMENTS TAX](#subdebate-9-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-10)
    * [REPATRIATION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS](#subdebate-10-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-11)
    * [DEFENCE DEPARTMENT](#subdebate-11-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-12)
    * [NAVAL AUXILIARY SERVICE](#subdebate-12-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-13)
    * [EXPORTOF CANNED PINEAPPLES](#subdebate-13-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-14)
    * [AUSTRALIAN LOANS](#subdebate-14-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-15)
    * [DEATHS DUE TO BATH HEATERS](#subdebate-15-0)
* [QUESTION](#debate-16)
    * [RED HILL TO PORT AUGUSTA RAILWAY SURVEY](#subdebate-16-0)


----


 **Mr. Speaker** (Rt.  Hon.  W. A. Watt)  took the  chair  at  3 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1090

{:#debate-0}
### ASSENT TO BILLS

Assent tothe following bills re  ported :  - 

High CourtProcedure Bill. 

States Loan Bill. 

{: .page-start }
page 1090

{:#debate-1}
### PAPERS

The  following  papers were  presented :  - 

  >Library Committee (Joint) - Report dated 10th July, 1925. 
  >
  >Defence Act - Regulations Amended- Statutory Rules 1925, Nos. 108, 109. 

{: .page-start }
page 1090

{:#debate-2}
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE

Motion (by  **Mr. Bruce)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave of absence for one month be given to the honorable member for Wide Bay,  **Mr. Corser,**  on the ground of urgent private business. 

Motion (by  **Mr. Charlton)**  agreed to- 

  >That leave ofabsence for one month be given to the honorable member for West Sydney, Mr.Lambert, on the ground of urgent private business. 

{: .page-start }
page 1090

{:#debate-3}
### HOUR OF MEETING

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Minister For External Affairs &middot; Flinders &middot; NAT</small>

-- I move - 

That the Houseat its rising adjourn until 1 1a.m. to-morrow. 

As honorable members are aware, it is at present contemplated that Parliament shall rise at the end  of  the present week over the period  of  the visit  of  the American Fleet, and as there is a considerable amount  of  business to be got through, it will, I think, suit the  convenience of  honorable members generally to meet tomorrow at 11 a.m. 

##### Mr CHARLTON:<br><small class="text-muted">Hunter</small>

.- I do not desire to raise any opposition to the motion, but I question whether it is necessary  for  the House to meet at 11 o'clock to-morrow, since, if the procedure adopted last night is continued, it will be quite an easy matter  for  the Government to get the. whole  of  its business through by to-night. I do not know-how much business the Government desires to go  on  with, but it might clear the sheet if  it so  desired. I hope that, the Prime Minister, in asking that the House shall meet at 11 o'clock to-morrow morning, intends to indicate that he is prepared to permit during the committee stage the intelligent discussion  of the  Immigration Bill, the second reading debate on which  was  closured last evening. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 1090

{:#debate-4}
### ORDER OF BUSINESS

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Minister for External Affairs &middot; Flinders &middot; NAT</small>

.- I move- 

  >That Government business take precedence of private members' business on the next clay of sitting. 

To-morrow is private members' day, and, in view  of  the proposed three weeks' adjournment and the necessity  of  getting  through a certain amount of legislation now on the notice-paper, the Government desires the opportunity of proceeding with its own business. 

##### Mr Fenton:

-- The Prime Minister might say whether the Government has a long list of important measures which it desires to get through. 

##### Mr BRUCE:

-- There are certain measures, and, in particular, the Immigration Bill, with which the Government desires to deal, but the list is not long. I wish to give the fullest possible opportunity for the discussion of that measure in committee. The motion will afford greater opportunity for its discussion, and has been submitted mainly for that reason. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 1091

{:#debate-5}
### PERSONAL EXPLANATIONS

{:#subdebate-5-0}
#### Pairs

##### Mr J FRANCIS:<br><small class="text-muted">MORETON, QUEENSLAND &middot; NAT; UAP from 1931; LP from 1944</small>

-- I wish to make a personal explanation. My name does not appear in the division lists, nor does it appear in the lists of pairs in connexion with the divisions taken last evening on the second-reading debate on the Immigration Bill. I spoke on the measure and indicated very definitely that I supported the measure. During the week the honorable member for Capricornia  **(Mr. Forde)**  approached me, and asked me for a. pair. I agreed to 'pair with him on the bill from after the dinner adjournment last evening. I regret to say that that pair was not honoured by (he honorable member. 

##### Mr PARKER MOLONEY:<br><small class="text-muted">HUME, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; ALP</small>

-- Not when the " gag " was moved. 

##### Mr J FRANCIS:<br><small class="text-muted">MORETON, QUEENSLAND &middot; NAT; UAP from 1931; LP from 1944</small>

-- Three divisions took place last night, and my name does not appear in any of the division lists, or in any of the lists of pairs. In each of these divisions the honorable member for Capricornia voted. I regret to have to make this explanation, and I regret more particularly the circumstances that make it necessary. 

##### Mr FORDE:<br><small class="text-muted">CAPRICORNIA, QUEENSLAND</small>

-- I wish to make a personal explanation in reference to that just made by the honorable member for Moreton  **(Mr. J. Francis).**  It is true, as the honorable member has said, that he and I agreed to pair on the Immigration Bill; but I should like to explain the special circumstances under which the pair was not observed. The honorable member for Moreton, in my presence, asked the honorable member for Gwydir  **(Mr. Cunningham)**  to grant him a pair. The honorable member for Gwydir agreed to do so, hut as he had not spoken on the bill, I agreed to pair with the honorablemember for Moreton, because I had already expressed my views in opposition to the bill. When the honorable member for Gwydir rose to speak last night on the second reading of the bill and to give his views against the measure, the " gag " was moved by the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Bruce)**  . I was reminded by my leader and by the whip of the party on this side, that when the " gag " is moved all pairs are disregarded. The Prime Minister severely criticized honorable members on this side for refraining from speaking on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply ; that is, for not wasting time on that motion. We then asked the Government to bring down their measures so that we could discuss them. A very important measure was under consideration last evening, and several honorable members on this side, including the honorable member for Ballarat  **(Mr. McGrath),**  the honorable member for Gwydir  **(Mr. Cunningham)**  the honorable member for Grey  **(Mr. Lacey),**  and the honorable member for Newcastle  **(Mr. Watkins),**  wished to state their views upon it, but they were deprived of the opportunity to do so. This party has decided that when the gag is moved all pairs go by the board. I regret that circumstances arose which caused the breaking of my pair with the honorable member for Moreton. When I agreed to pair with him I had every intention of observing that agreement, but, understanding that when the " gag " is moved pairs are off, and being reminded of that by my leader and the Whip, I decided that the pair should not stand. The Government put up the honorable member for Fawkner  **(Mr. Maxwell)**  to make out a fictitious case, and then, by moving the "gag," prevented honorable members on this side from replying to it. I regret the circumstances which prevented my observance of the pair. 

##### Sir ELLIOT JOHNSON:<br><small class="text-muted">LANG, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

-- I desire, also, to make a personal explanation. Yesterday I arranged a pair with the honorable member for Melbourne Ports  **(Mr. Mathews).**  I was here, and able to vote if I chose to do so, but as thehonorable member for Melbourne Portshad gone home, I honouredmy pair, and refrained from voting. 

{: .page-start }
page 1092

{:#debate-6}
### SHIPPING DISPUTE

{:#subdebate-6-0}
#### Formal Motion of Adjournment

##### Mr SPEAKER (Rt Hon W A Watt:<br><small class="text-muted">BALACLAVA, VICTORIA</small>

-- I haver received an intimation from the honorable the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Charlton that he desires to move the adjournment of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely , " The necessity for**  the Prime Minister to con- vene atconference  of  the parties to the shipping dispute." 


 *Five honorable members having risen* 
 *intheirplaces,* 


Question proposed. 

##### Mr CHARLTON:<br><small class="text-muted">Hunter</small>

.- The present position in regard to the shipping dispute is very serious. It is-, therefore, necessarythat everything  possibleshould  be done to preventanindustrial upheaval in Australia which is likely to disrupt commerce and industry, and to bring in its train suffering and injury to thousands of people. It is notmywish  to  impart any party feeling into this debate. This matter is above party, and therefore in the best interests of the Commonwealth all party feeling should be sunk. I wish to place on record the happenings which have led up to this dispute. I shall say nothing, I hope, to reflecton the parties to it,  or  to widen the breach between them. I want, if possible, to bring those parties together so that in the best interests of the Commonwealth the trouble can be amicably settled. The dispute originated some time ago, in connexion, with trouble between the seamen and the ship-owners. As a result, an application was made to the Arbitration Court by the Attornay-General and the Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association, for the deregistration of the Seamen's Union of Australia. Judgment was given by  **Mr. Justice**  Powers on the 6th February, 1925, and was reported in the newspapers as follows : - 

  >His Honour pointed out that the present was the first time the application for deregistration had been made. Hecould not understand the Government asking  for  the union'sderegistration while  work  was going, on,.  If  the union were deregistered when the men were at work  that  would cause the worst industrial war that ever happened fir Australia. Certain men had. done things for which they could be prosecuted.. If. the men had not worked under the award he had the papers ready to sign for the union's deregistration. Did counsel think it was in the interests of the public that another union should be farmed - it would, be termed an employers' union - and that an industrial war should be caused? 

There is great wisdom in Judge Powers' statement. Every man who is interested in industrial matters, knows that industrial warfare will ultimately be the outcome of deregistration. However;,  His  Honour at that time refused to degister the union. Then,, on the 1st May,, 1925, another application was madeto the Arbitration Court by the Commonwealth Shipping. Board and the Commonwealth Steamship Owners' Association. I want honorable members to bear in mind that in the first instance the AttorneyGeneral, and in the second instance the Commonwealth Shipping Board, made application to the court; so that in both instances the Commonwealth, with the ship-owners of this country, was a party to the application for deregistration. The second application was heard before  **Mr. Deputy President**  Webb, in Melbourne, on the 21st May.. 1925. I do not intend to quote his judgment, but the judge ordered the Seamen's Union to put theEromanga and the  *Dilga*  into commission. The union refused ,, and, the judge ordered that the award should cease after the 5th June. 1925: The award  accordingly  ceased to operate, and the present dispute arose. On the 30th June a deputation waited on the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Bruce).**  It was. composed of representatives of the transport unions in New South Wales and, I' think, Victoria. They were  **Mr. J.**  S. Garden, secretary of the Sydney Trades and: Labour Council; Alderman B. Mullens, organizer of the Sydney branch of the Waterside. Workers' Federation ; and Messrs. C, Crofts,  president,  and  **Mr.. E.**  J., Holloway,. secretary of the Melbourne Trades Hall Industrial Disputes Committee. At that interview it was pointed out to the, Prime Minister by  **Mr. Crofts**  that they had come, to see himinthe hope el agreeing upon some means by which industrial disputes,and particularly theseamen's difficulty, couldbetakenin handbefore they had causedindustrialturmoil.  **Mr. Holloway**  said that hethought it quite reasonable for theseamento wantsome guarantee in  their articles thatthe conditions agreed upon under arbitration should be observed.  **Mr. Garden**  was reported in the press as follows: - 

  >The transport group proposed that, in the event of a disputeoccurring, instead of a ship being held up duringthe period ofher articles representativesof the seamen andrepresentatives of the shipping companies should meet at a round table conference. If a settlement were not arrived at the States Disputes Committee would be brought into play. Failing settlement by that committee, it was suggested that the matter be dealt with by a proposed Commonwealth Disputes Committee. Meanwhile the articles would be observed, and the ship's time-table continued. 


 **Mr. Mullens** said ; 

The seamen, in asking for an agreement, claimed that each manshould be protected underhis articles. Thejobcontrol business wasto be cut out, and theship would proceed according to thescheduled time-table. 

ThePrime Minister, in reply, said - 

  >Ithadbeen suggestedby the deputation that job controlwas goingto be dealt with and got rid of. Job control had been a breach of the award, and the award in that respect had been flagrantly disregarded. 

He saidalso that he believed in constitutional action in regard todisputes, but the job control wasthemost important matter tobe dealt with at this stage. However,thePrime Minister did not intervene inthedispute, and took no action. Subsequent to the Prime Minister's refusal to intervene,  **Mr. Lang,**  the Labour Premier of New South Wales, was interviewed on the matter. He took action with the result that he was ableto bringabout a settlement so far as theCommonwealth Shipping Board was concerned. It is remarkable that a state premier could come to such an arrangement with our own Shipping Board when the Prime Minister had done nothing. In consequence of that settlement, the seamen continued to work. The newspaper report of the matter reads as follows : - 

  >The memorandums of the agreement were drawn up chiefly through the agency ofthe Premier of New South Wales  **(Mr. Lang).**  Thesewere signed on behalf of theAustralian CommonwealthShipping Board by Admiral  **Sir W.**  Clarkson , and  **Mr. R.**  Farquhar, directors, and  **Mr. W.**  Lewis, secretary, while the unions represented among the signatories were: - Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen, presidentG. E. Moate.; secretary New South Wales branch, R. J. Heffron; general secretary, A. H. Moate; FederatedShips' Paintersand Dockers, J. MacDonald; Marine Cooks, Butchers, and 
  >
  >Bakers Association of Australia, J.Tudehope, secretary; Waterside Workers Federation, W. H. Seale, secretary; Sydney Coal Lumpers Union, F. A. Hale, secretary, A. E. O'Brien president; Federated ShipwrightsUnion, S. Shearer, secretary. 

That is a formidable list of representatives of thewaterside and transport workers' unions. The report proceeds - 

  >The unions' memorandum of agreement pledged the signatories to guarantee the fulfilment of the conditions of employment as contained in the federated seamen's award in operation on the 4th June, 1925, to be attached toships' articles under which members of the Seamen's Unionsign on. They further agreed not to countenance any action of members of the said union that would be calculated to either delay or hold up the sailing of anyship during the currency of the ship's articles. Should the Seamen's Union flout the agreement under which they have signed on any vessel, and persist in preventing the sailing of ships or exercise job control, the group promised to bring all the pressure it could to bear on that union to observe the conditions aforesaid, and if the union continued in its attitude it would be isolated from the group. In the event of those measures not being successful, the transport group agreed it would not oppose any measures affecting the manning ofships to permit of their continued running. 
  >
  >The Australian Shipping Board undertook on its part to endorse the ships' articles, and attach thereto the wages and conditions of employmentunder which the members of the Federated Seamen's Union were employed on the 4th day of June, 1925, as the wages and conditions to govern the employment of thesaid members of the Seamen's Union duringthe currency of the ships' articles on which they signed. 

Underdate 6 th July,Rear-Admiral Clarkson wrote to the Premier ofNew South Wales  **(Mr. Lang),**  as follows :  - 

  >Clause we propose to endorse on articles will read : - These articles, as far as bosun, able seamen, lamp trimmers, storekeepers, donkeymen, greasers, firemen, trimmers, ordinary seamen and crews' attendants are concerned,are subject to the wages and conditions as set out in the seamen's award prior to its cancellation by the  Deputy President  of the Arbitration Court on the 4th June last. . . . You will notice that we do not propose any machinery for dealing with disputes. We will sincerely observe the conditionsof the late award, and if theseamen do the same there should be no dispute. We think that the wording, as suggested previously by the Seamen's Union, would invite disputes. I regret that at the moment I am unable to give you any assurance that the Steamship Owners Federation will agree to any clause giving the late award a place in the articles. My board wishes to thank you very sincerely for the action you have taken to bring about a settlement of this difficult situation, and trusts that your efforts will be the means of bringing in a new era of industrial peace. 


 **Mr. Lang** rendered the community good service by his intervention, but a State Premier has not the same standing in the community as the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth. While he has some influence in state affairs, he has not very much in Commonwealth matters. ' After  **Mr. Lang's**  successful intervention in sofar as the Shipping Board was concerned, a delegation consisting of  **Mr. J.**  S. Garden, secretary of the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council;  **Mr. A.**  H. Moate, of the Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen; and  **Mr. J.**  Tudehope, secretary of the Marine Cooks, Butchers, and Bakers Association of Australia, came to Melbourne to interview the ship-owners, with a view to securing their signature to the agreement. ' I do not think it- necessary to quote tho press reports of the deputation's actions. It is sufficient to say that certain conditions that were acceptable to the Commonwealth Shipping Board were not acceptable to the Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association, which desired to settle the question of job control once and for all. Although the deputation was unable to effect a settlement of the dispute with the shipowners, I wish honorable members to understand definitely that up to the time it left Melbourne to return to Sydney the door of negotiation was still open. No doubt, after the men's representatives returned to Sydney an endeavour would have been made to submit to the shipowners some definite proposal in. regard to job control, but, unfortunately, the ultimatum which was issued yesterday brought about the withdrawal of the men from the ships. That, undoubtedly, accentuated the difficulties of the position. 

I have drawn attention to these salientpoints in the dispute so that honorable members may focus their minds upon them. At the moment I am saying nothing whatever as to the merits of the dispute. The fact that we have to face is that a dispute has occurred between two parties, both of whom may be wrong in some degree, and neither of whom is, I expect, entirely right. The time has arrived, in my opinion, when some definite action should be taken by the Prime Minister. I say that in all earnestness, andwithout any party feeling whatever. If these were the last words that I uttered I should say that there is no party feeling in this at all, as far as I am concerned. 


 *I* have had a lifetime of experience in these matters. I can recall many of tha serious disputes of the past. I know what they mean to the community. I know the suffering that they entail on women  and children, to say nothing whatever about the men. I know how necessary it is to keep the wheels of industry moving. For these reasons I wish that the Prime . Minister may intervene without delay. I can carry my. mind back a few years io the time of the greatest upheavals that the coal trade in Australia has ever known. I approached the right honorable member for North Sydney  **(Mr. Hughes),**  who was then Prime Minister, and urged him to intervene. He did so and the contending parties were brought together. A settlement of the dispute followed, and there has been no trouble in the coal trade since then. It was a magnificent piece of work in the interests of Australia. The exPrime Minister realized the importance of his. position, stepped into the breach, and brought about a settlement of that great dispute. No one can say how much that has meant to the prosperity of our country. But I can also carry my mind back a little further, to the time when there was another upheaval in the mining industry of New South Wales. The then Premier  **(Mr. Wade)**  .had what is known as the Coercion Act passed, and many of the miners' leaders were imprisoned. But that did not heal the breach. It aggravated the trouble. It cannot be said that I was not ready to intervene at that time. I did so, notwithstanding that I wa3 then seeking election to this Parliament for the first time. .1 risked defeat at that election, but I felt that it was my duty to do everything I could to bring about a settlement of the dispute. I was in contact with both parties and talked with them for many hours day after day in order to find some ground on which a settlement could be made. Surely those two experiences have some message for us at this juncture. I believe very strongly that the Prime Minister should intervene. I am not making these statements in a threatening way. I believe from the j bottom of my heart that the Government ought to exhaust every possible means 1o settle a dispute of this magnitude. We should endeavour to get the parties together. I cannot divulge what I have been doing, but before the Immigration Bill was introduced I was working quietly on this dispute. I have not been idle, and I have every reason to believe that if the Prime Minister will take steps to bring the parties together at a round-table conference, the dispute will be settled satisfactorily, and normal conditions quickly resumed. In dealing with this question, do not let us be blinded by prejudice, or pay too much regard to what any individual may have done. The question for lis to consider is, what should we do at this, the psychological moment for action?' If we do not act now we shall be too late, for the dispute has continued too long already. No .body of men, whether employers or employees, could refuse an invitation issued by the Prime Minister to meet in conference. The Prime Minister could sit as  chairman,  and hold the scales of justice evenly. I believe that nothing but good would, result from such action, and the Prime Minister himself would achieve a triumph, for both parties are willing to settle the dispute if they can see how to do it. There is no means, except action by the Government, of getting the two parties to meet and discuss the dispute. The people of Australia during the next few weeks will be entertaining the officers and men of the American Meet, and it is difficult to say what will happen if the strike continues for another week. When our guests arrive, they may find all the capital cities of Australia in darkness. In that event, what could we do with them? The admiral in command would certainly not allow his men. however well-behaved, to come ashore to a city that was in darkness, and where there was industrial turmoil. The continuance of the strike would prevent us from doing our duty by our guests. That aspect of the question, however, is trivial beside the larger question of the welfare of the Commonwealth. .No honorable member . desires to see an industrial upheaval in this country at the present time. The wheels of industry should not be clogged, but they may be if every effort is not made to bring the parties together. Were I in the Prime Minister's place, I should not hesitate, and few men would. I do not think he will. If any individual has clone anything against the law of the land, he should be dealt with according to that law; but in considering this great question, which affects every person in Australia, our views of certain individuals should not prevent action being taken for the common good. I am not making this request to the Government for party reasons. The dispute has got beyond the stage at which party capital might be made from it. All I can. see is that injury is being done to the Commonwealth. I again appeal to the Prime Minister to convene this conference. The conference could meet in about two days, and in two or three days after that a settlement would probably be reached. How much better would that be for the future prosperity and development of this Commonwealth than allowing the dispute to continue? Contrast the result of a settlement with what is likely to happen if the wheels of industry are stopped, if hunger stalks through the land, and if thousands of people in every state are thrown out of employment. Parliament. if it does not take action, will sink in the estimation of the people of this country. I implore the Prime Minister, with all the earnestness I can command, to act immediately, and I repeat again that if he takes steps to call a conference I believe a settlement will be reached within three or four days. 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Minister for External Affairs &middot; Flinders &middot; NAT</small>

-- The question raised by the honorable the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Charlton)**  is of fundamental importance at the present moment to all the people of Australia. It should certainly be discussed by honorable members without any party feeling, and with the utmost restraint, because it is impossible to calculate the harm that could be done by imprudent utterances by responsible men at such a time as this. In reply to the honorable member, I purpose merely to explain the present position. Honorable members are familial*' with recent events in connexion with the dispute, but they should also inform themselves of what happened earlier, for upon those happenings they must decide whether it is practicable tq bring about the desired settlement. The question of the de-registration of the Seamen's Union arose early in the present year, but there had been for a considerable time previously a large amount of friction with the union. A practice loosely known as " joh control " had grown up, and had led to innumerable difficulties in the shipping industry, with stoppages of vessels and consequent great.- loss, suffering, and distress to the whole, community. The dispute: about job- control is not new, for as far back as February, 1921, an agreement . was entered into between the Seamen's Union and the. owners, in which it was. specifically laid, down that -  the policy of securing' alterations by the adoption of so-called " job control " is hereby waived. 

Tinder that agreement, the policy of job control was completely repudiated, and the union undertook that it would not be continued ; but, unfortunately, it was continued. In March, 19-23, after much friction, the Arbitration Court made an award, in which job control was specifically forbidden. That award define? "job- control"  *as*  follows: -  "Job control " includes any attempt by members of the organization, or any of them, to enforce- industrial conditions; other than those prescribed or recognized by the Court or by the Navigation Act . or any competent authority thereunder, either by refusing to offer for or accept work on any particular vessel or vessels, by refusing or failing, to- carry out. the work on any particular vessel or vessels, or by any methods other than those provided by the Commonwealth Conciliation- and Arbitration Act, or by the. methods of ordinary negotiation. 

Still the practice continued, and- the whole community recognized that the policy of job control was doing injury to the seamen and to the whole community. But, unfortunately, owing to the- views held- by certain members of the1 union, neither the undertaking in the original agreement nor the terms of the Arbitration Court's' award was observed. Joh control was persisted in, and the position was so acute at the beginning of the present year that it. became necessary, unless the. authority of the Arbitration Court, which was created by this Parliament, was to be flouted and the court itself brought into contempt, that some action should be taken against the union. The Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Charlton):**  mentioned that the Commonwealth' Government made the first application for the deregistration of the union. It is- one- of the responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government, whatever party may be in power,, tot uphold the authority of the. Arbitration Court, so lon/r as. it exists under a statute of this Parliament. Th? application for deregistration was dealt with by the court, and early in January there appeared some! prospect of a settlement. The seamen appeared to have realized the disastrous results that were flowing from their tactics, audi an undertaking was actually given by their leader that job control would be. discontinued. But, notwithstanding  **Mr. Walsh's**  undertaking, job control was still pursued, and it became necessary latter in the year for the  President,  of the. Arbitration Court, to take definite and drastic action.  **Mr. Justice**  Powers, addressing  **Mr. Walsh,**  had said - 

Then- as. to the other  matters  that may be in dispute, he undertakes,, on behalf of the union, that they will be settled by a conference, and that they will continue to carry on until those matters are settled by the conference,, or, in the. event of&lt; the- conference failing to settle, by the court. 


 **Mr. Walsh.** ; That is correct. 

Honorable! members will see that  **Mr. Walsh**  subscribed to that undertaking in January of this year. Yet the union was again ii? court  *m*  March,, when Mr:. Justice Powers referred to the fact that job control was still being- practised,, and that the undertaking given earlier in the year was not being honoured!. The position was such that, unless the. court was to be held in contempt by ship-owners, members of unions, and the public generally, action had to be taken. Accordingly, in June, the Seamen's Union was deregistered. Everybody must recognize that, while the union was under th? protection of the Arbitration Court,, better conditions were secured in the Australian mercantile marine than obtain in any other shipping service in the world, and it. is lamentable that the seamen have, left the shelter of the court. I am perfectly certain that that view is shared by every honorable member in this House. We have no desire- to criticize the seamen, for most of us feel that they have been misled^ It is a great misfortune to them and the community that they have been placed in their present position, but. it- isi necessary to bear in mind the facts' I have related, because the POSsibility of a settlement of the dispute depends, largely upon the value to be placed upon any undertaking that may be given by the seamen's union. The deregistration of the union and the can- cellation of the Arbitration Court's award operated from the 1st June of this year. The leader of the union suggested in court that the seamen had been singled out for hostile treatment, and had been almost persecuted. The facts do not support that allegation. When that suggestion was made during, the deregistration proceedings,  **Mr. Deputy President**  Webb said - 

  >It is not open to doubt that this union is acting in defiance of the principles of arbitration. It has, however, endeavoured to excuse itself by suggesting that the applicants in this case have endeavoured to evade the award of the court. It has not attempted to prove this, in any way, and it is difficult on the face of the facts to understand how such a contention could be substantiated. These respondents are bound by a large number of awards of this court. These awards are made at the instance of the Merchant Service Guild, the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers, the Waterside Workers, the Marine Cooks, Butchers and Bakers, the Federated Ship's Painters and Dockers; the Federated Shipwrights, Ship Contractors and Boat Builders, the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners, the Radio Telegraphists' Institute, the Federated Engine Drivers, and Firemen's Association, the Australian Clerical Association (tally clerks), the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Australian Society of Engineers, the Federated Society of Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuilders of Australia. 

All those organizations are associated with and work side by side with the members of the seamen's union in the shipping industry. They find it possible to remain within the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court, and follow their occupations without constant disputes such as arise in connexion with the seamen's union. We are, therefore, forced to the conclusion that there are peculiar influences in that union which are causing the constant friction between its members and the employers. Following the de-registration of the seamen's union, other industrial organizations recognized that a serious position had developed, and they endeavoured to bring about a settlement of the dispute. A deputation from the transport unions waited upon me and urged that I should convene a conference which would give to the seamen's union practically every advantage which it had emjoyed under the Arbitration Court award. I pointedout that as head of the 

Government which was responsible  for  upholding the authority of the court, I could not take the action suggested. The seamen had defied the court, and they had no right to ask that another tribunal should be set up for their advantage; I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the coalminers to whom he referred were not acting in open defiance of the court as the seamen are. I could not possibly intervene at the stage when a deputation waited upon me, and I suggested that there should be further negotiations between the ship-owners and the seamen. Since that date an arrangement has been entered into between the seamen and the Commonwealth Shipping Line. The private ship-owners were invited to subscribe to the same arrangement. I understand that they signified their readiness to consider the suggestion, but they doubted whether the transport organization had the power to discipline the seamen's union as they undertook to do. They pointed out that the court had never been able to discipline the seamen, and we have evidence that at the very time when other unions were offering an undertaking to the ship-owners,  **Mr. Walsh**  was writing newspaper articles in which he still advocated job control. The representatives of the shipping companies said that if the other unionscould show that they had power to discipline the seamen an amicable settlement would be possible. That settlement could not, however, be upon the basis of the agreement with the Commonwealth Shipping Line, to which the seamen's union was not a party; it was necessary that that union should be a signatory to any arrangement that might be entered into for the settlement of this dispute. An agreement could not be made with other unions, and the seamen's union allowed to stand aloof from it. I think that possibly the seamen's union can be induced to sign an agreement, but the attitude of the owners was that until the other unions gave evidence of their ability to discipline the seamen the agreement would be worth nothing. They said, also, that they could not continue to negotiate with men who had issued a threat that on the 14th July they would strike and hold the country to ransom unless everything for which they asked was conceded before that date. 

The delegates from the transport unions returned to Sydney, and I regret that they were not able to discipline the seamen and ensure that the threatened strike would not occur. 

I think it is still possible for something to be done to bring these men to their senses. If the seamen persist in holding up the community, I think that, with the assistance of other unions, and the discipline whichI believe they can bring to bear, it will still be possible to settle this matter. I suggest that at this stage it would be very ill advised to debate the matter here. The Leader of the Opposition has put his case at length, and has made his suggestions. It is my responsibility to determine what my action shall be. I can assure honorable members opposite that I am as desirous as they can be of seeing the present lamentable state of affairs ended, and an arrangement come to under which the ships will again be in commission, and what has been a menace to the whole industrial movement of Australia, and indeed to the whole of its people, during the last few years will be removed. I ask for the present that honorable members should leave the matter where it is. It would be very undesirable to have a . discussion of the matter in this Parliament as a result of which at any moment passions might be inflamed and a great deal of harm might be done. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- The right honorable gentleman's time has expired. 

Question resolved in the negative. 

{: .page-start }
page 1098

{:#debate-7}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-7-0}
#### AIR-SHIP SERVICE

##### Mr MARKS:<br><small class="text-muted">WENTWORTH, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

asked the Minister for Defence,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Have statements been made by Air ViceMarshal  **Sir Sefton**  Brancker, Director of Civil Aviation, and Commander Burney, M.P., that air-ships would probably make a flight to Australia in 1927? 
1. Will arrangements be made with the British Government that Australian aviators and mechanics who may from time to time be sent to England may receive the necessary instruction in air-ship handling, in order to render them fit to replace air-ship ratings should the occasion so arise on the arrival of the airship in Australia? 
2. Has the erection of mooring masts at Darwin, Melbourne, and Sydney, with the necessary fuel supplies, and also air-ship hangars at Melbourne and Sydney, yet been considered? 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">for SirNeville Howse &middot; NAT</small>

-- The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow: - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. The Government has no knowledge of a definite statement being made to the effect that air-ships will probably fly to Australia in 1927. It is understood thatR.33, now under repair, will be used for experimental flying in Egypt, and that twonew air-ships now being manufactured in England (one by the Imperial Government, the other by Commander Burney's company) will be completed in 1927, and that a service will then be established between England and India. The matter of an extension of the service toAustralia will be one for discussion between the Commonwealth and Imperial Governments. 
1. The only air-craft pilots and mechanics now employed by the Commonwealth Government are those trained in the operation of heavier-than-air craft. The operation of lighter-than-air craft calls for special training, which could not be made use of at the moment; but as lighter-than-air craft will, no doubt, at some future date be used in connexion with air defence, any opportunity for instructing personnel in the handling of this craft will be made use of. 
2. The form of the Government's cooperation in the air-ship development programme has not yet been considered in detail. 

{: .page-start }
page 1098

{:#debate-8}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-8-0}
#### POSTMASTER-GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT

Military Duty of Officers

##### Dr MALONEY:<br><small class="text-muted">MELBOURNE, VICTORIA &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931; ALP from 1936</small>

asked the PostmasterGeneral,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Does any officer of the PostmasterGeneral's Department have to report for duty after having completed a full day's drill as required by the Defence Act? 
1. Has any postmaster, or any other officer of the Postmaster-General's Department, any authority to communicate with an area officer, and arrange for the reduction of a full day's drill in order to secure the services of the officer during the period he' should be drilling? 
2. If an area officer reduces a full day's drill to a half-day's drill, is the officer of the Postmaster-General's Department credited with a full day's drill, or must he make up his hours of drill? 

##### Mr GIBSON:<br><small class="text-muted">Postmaster-General &middot; CORANGAMITE, VICTORIA &middot; CP</small>

-- The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow :  - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. No. 
1. Area officers have been instructed by the Defence Department to interview postmasters at the smaller offices to make special arrangements, so that the work of the office will not he unduly affected by the absence of the officer. Where this has not been done, the postmaster is authorized to get into touch with the area officer for the same purpose, but this authority has rarely been exercised. 
2. The officer is credited with a half-day's drill. The department would, however, grant leave on another occasion required to make up the other half. 

{: .page-start }
page 1099

{:#debate-9}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-9-0}
#### ENTERTAINMENTS TAX

Costof Collection

##### Mr J FRANCIS:<br><small class="text-muted">MORETON, QUEENSLAND &middot; NAT; UAP from 1931; LP from 1944</small>

asked the Treasurer,  *upon notice -* 

  >What was the amount expended in salaries, rent, printing, and other expenses in collecting entertainments tax during the years 1922-3. 1923-4, and 1924-5? 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">for Dr. Earle Page &middot; NAT</small>

-- The answer is - 

  >The costs as to entertainments tax are inextricably merged with corresponding costs of collection of other taxes collected by the Taxation Branch. The information, therefore, cannot be given, and it is impossible to form a reasonable estimate of the amount expended under the heads set out for entertainments tax only. 

{: .page-start }
page 1099

{:#debate-10}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-10-0}
#### REPATRIATION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS

##### Mr CHARLTON:

asked the Minister for Defence,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Is it a fact that the Royal Commission on theRepatriation Act recommended, on the 22nd December, 1924, that,interalia, a permanent pension in some degree be paid where tuberculosis has resulted from war service? 
1. When does he propose to give effect to the recommendations of that commission? 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">for Sir Neville Howse &middot; NAT</small>

-- The answers to the honorable members questions are as follow: - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. TheRoyal Commission on the Assessment of War Service Disabilities did recommend,  *inter alia,*  thata permanent pension in some degree be paid where tuberculosis has resulted from war service. 
1. The recommendations contained in the report of that commission are at present receiving the consideration of the Government, and it is proposed, at an early date, to make a full statement to the Houseon the subject. 

{: .page-start }
page 1099

{:#debate-11}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-11-0}
#### DEFENCE DEPARTMENT

Position of Dr. Holmes

##### Mr BRENNAN:<br><small class="text-muted">BATMAN, VICTORIA</small>

asked the Minister for Defence,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. What is the precise position, with relation to the Defence Department, of  **Dr. Holmes,**  expert in military sanitation and bacteriology? 
1. Has he been required by the Defence Department to sit for an examination to qualify for the rank of major as a condition of his retaining the office of Director of Hygiene? If so, does the Minister approve of such condition? 
2. How was the office of Director of Hygiene established, and what are the qualifications? 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">for Sir Neville Howse &middot; NAT</small>

-- The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow :  - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. 
 **Dr. Holmes** was appointed Director of Hygiene, Australian Army Medical Corps, at Army Head-quarters, on the 1st September, 1921, with the rank of captain, which was the rank held by him in the Australian Imperial Force. He was granted the temporary rank of major whilst holding such appointment. On the 1st May, 1924, he was promoted to the provisional rank of major. He still holds that provisional rank. The Defence Act provides that, before promotion, an officer is required to pass the examination which is prescribed for officers of his corps, but permits promotion to be made provisionally, subject to that examination being passed within the prescribed time.' The time prescribed is eighteen months, and a syllabus of examination is authorized for members of the Australian Army Medical Corps. Should the examination not be passed within theprescribed time, the provisional appointment is terminated and the officer reverts to his lower substantive rank. 
1. He has not been required to qualify for the rank of major as a condition of his retaining his appointment of Director of Hygiene. 
2. The office of Director of Hygiene forms part of the post-war organization of the Australian Army Medical Service. In order to carry out the duties, the qualifications necessary are a knowledge of military organization, administration, and training, and it is essential that the officer holding the appointment should hold the Diploma of Health. 

{: .page-start }
page 1099

{:#debate-12}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-12-0}
#### NAVAL AUXILIARY SERVICE

Deferred Pay

##### Mr D CAMERON:<br><small class="text-muted">BRISBANE. QLD &middot; NAT</small>

asked the Treasurer,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Whether the relatives of any deceased personnel of the Naval Auxiliary Services, and also rating's discharged from the Naval Auxiliary Services, have been paid the deferred pay promised by the Government when considering the Superannuation Bill during the monthof October, 1924? 
1. If not, will he state the reason why the promise has not been given effect to? 


 **Mr. BRUCE** (for  **Dr. Earle**  Page).The answer to the honorable member's questions is as follows: - 1 and 2. Regulations have now been approved by the Governor-General providing for payments of deferred pay and retiring allowances in respect of service in the Auxiliary Services. No funds to make payments were provided on the Estimates for 1924-25, but Treasury approval was given to savings on Navy Estimates for 1924-25 being utilized, and payments are now being made. It is expected that all outstanding claims will shortly be finalized. 

{: .page-start }
page 1100

{:#debate-13}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-13-0}
#### EXPORTOF CANNED PINEAPPLES

##### Mr J FRANCIS:<br><small class="text-muted">MORETON, QUEENSLAND &middot; NAT; UAP from 1931; LP from 1944</small>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Migration,  *upon notice -* 

Whether anybountyhas been paid on canned pineapples exported?If so,how much, and to whom was the bounty paid? 

##### Mr ATKINSON:<br><small class="text-muted">Vice-President of the Executive Council &middot; WILMOT, TASMANIA &middot; CP</small>

-- The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: - 

On canned pineapples exported during the 1925 seasonan export height subsidy willbe paid at the ratesand under the conditions set outhereunder :  - 


 *Rates.* 


Onfruit which realizesnet f.o.b. Brisbane 9s. 3d. orless per dozen 30-oz. tins, 6d.per dozen tins,such rateto be reducedby1d. for every penny which the fruit realizes above9s. 3d. per dozen, and to vanish whenthe price reaches9s.9d.per dozen. 


 *Conditions.* 


{: type="a" start="a"}
0. That the canner paysnot less than 3s.9d.per case of60 lb.at orchard forfresh pineapples;  (b)that  the pineapples are sold in Great Britain under the canner's own label. 

{: .page-start }
page 1100

{:#debate-14}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-14-0}
#### AUSTRALIAN LOANS

borrowinginlondonandamerica: Statementbysirmarksheldon. 

##### Mr WEST:<br><small class="text-muted">EAST SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

asked the Treasurer,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Have the following cablegramsbeen brought under thenotice of the Government: - 

    {: type="a" start="a"}
    0. That "the most influential authorities statethatthe London market is distinctly hostile to dominion borrowing outside Great Britain, which would bebad for the prestige of London as afinancial centre and bad for British trade, as America would be sure to see that trade followed the loan ? 
    1. According to the financial editor of the  *Westminster Gazette,*  Australian loans which have been issued in London have ensured the cheapest basis of borrowing, and latterly the conditions ofthe London market have been unpropitiousfor further oversea borrowing.? 

1. In view of the above, will the Government causeto be issuedconsols or stock tothe present holders ofloans amounting to 66,000,000, which fall due15th December, 1925, at the present rate of interest? 
2. With . the view of complying with any agreement or termsmade bythe Federal Loan Council and to meettheir requirements, will he cause allsuch loans to be raised in Australia in order to obviate any borrowing on the London market? 


 **Mr. BRUCE** (for  **Dr. Earlepage).The**  answers tothe honorable member's questions are as follow :  - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Yes. 
1. This is not practicable. 
2. Australia cannot find allthe money necessary to develop the latent resources of the country. 

##### Mr WEST:

asked theTreasurer,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Hashis attention been drawnto a statementthat was reported to havebeen madeby  **Sir MarkSheldon,late**  Australian representative in America, while in London, that Australia shouldaccept a loan from America in lieu of London? 
1. Will he state if  **Sir Mark**  Sheldon has any authority to actinany capacity for theGovernment inthe matter ? 


 **Mr, BRUCE** (for Dr.Earlepage).  *The*  answersto the honorable member's questions areas follow :  -  l.Yes. 

{: type="1" start="2"}
0. The gentleman named  has  nosuch authority. 

{: .page-start }
page 1100

{:#debate-15}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-15-0}
#### DEATHS DUE TO BATH HEATERS

##### Dr MALONEY:<br><small class="text-muted">MELBOURNE, VICTORIA &middot; ALP; FLP from 1931; ALP from 1936</small>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,upon  *notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Has his attention been drawn to the deaths arising from bath heaters? 
1. Will he request the Commonwealth Statist to endeavourto have all death certificates arisingfromsuch causes to contain the following information: - 

    {: type="a" start="a"}
    0. Themanufacturers and nameof such bath heater; 
    1. whethersuch bath heaters areheated  by gas, fuel, or from a range? 


##### Mr MARR:

-- The answers to the honorable member's questions are asfollow :  - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Certain newspaper reports relatingto the matter have come undernotice. 
1. The honorable member'ssuggestion is one for theconsiderationof theStateGovernments, by whom the registration of deaths is atpresent controlled. 

{: .page-start }
page 1100

{:#debate-16}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-16-0}
#### RED HILL TO PORT AUGUSTA RAILWAY SURVEY

##### Mr LACEY:<br><small class="text-muted">GREY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA</small>

asked the Minister for Works and Railways,  *upon notice -* 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Has any surveybeen adoptedfor the proposed railway fromRed Hill toPort Augusta, South Australia? 
1. If so, doesthe adopted surveygo into Port Pirie and Port Germein; and, if not, at what distance from Port Pirie does thesurvey cross theexisting3-ft.6-in.gauge railway, and at what distanceeast of Port Germeinis the survey? 

##### Mr HILL:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Works and Railways &middot; ECHUCA, VICTORIA &middot; CP</small>

-- The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow :  - 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. Surveys have been made, but have not yet been adopted. 
1. Alternate surveys have been made of the crossing of the existing 3-ft. 6-in. gauge railway near Port Pirie, but the crossing has not yet been definitely settled. The surveyed route runs about 1 miles east of the shore end of the jetty at Port Germein. 

