---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1950-02-22
year: 1950
session: 1
page_start: 15
parliament: 19
file_id: 19500222_reps_19_206
debates:
  - title: "PROCLAMATION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: proclamations
    subdebates:
  - title: "OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "MEMBERS SWORN"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ELECTION OF SPEAKER"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "FOURTH MENZIES MINISTRY"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, K.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-0"
      - title: "Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt"
        id: "#subdebate-5-2"
      - title: "Minister for External Affairs and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable Percy Claude Spender, K.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-4"
      - title: "Minister for Supply and Development and Minister for Works and Housing - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-6"
      - title: "Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H"
        id: "#subdebate-5-8"
      - title: "Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable Thomas Walter White. D.F.C., V.D"
        id: "#subdebate-5-10"
      - title: "Postmaster-General - The Honorable Hubert Lawrence Anthony"
        id: "#subdebate-5-12"
      - title: "Minister for Information and Minister for Transport - The Honorable Oliver Howard Beale"
        id: "#subdebate-5-14"
  - title: "LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "PARLIAMENTARY OFFICERS"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1950"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES"
    id: "#debate-11"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "KINGSFORD-SMITH ELECTORAL DIVISION"
    id: "#debate-12"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Petition"
        id: "#subdebate-12-0"
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-13"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-14"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "ADDRESS-IN-REPLY"
        id: "#subdebate-14-0"
  - title: "HOUR OF MEETING"
    id: "#debate-15"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-16"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [PROCLAMATION](#debate-0)
* [OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT](#debate-1)
* [MEMBERS SWORN](#debate-2)
* [ELECTION OF SPEAKER](#debate-3)
* [COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH](#debate-4)
* [FOURTH MENZIES MINISTRY](#debate-5)
    * [Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, K.C](#subdebate-5-0)
    * [Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt](#subdebate-5-2)
    * [Minister for External Affairs and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable Percy Claude Spender, K.C](#subdebate-5-4)
    * [Minister for Supply and Development and Minister for Works and Housing - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C](#subdebate-5-6)
    * [Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H](#subdebate-5-8)
    * [Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable Thomas Walter White. D.F.C., V.D](#subdebate-5-10)
    * [Postmaster-General - The Honorable Hubert Lawrence Anthony](#subdebate-5-12)
    * [Minister for Information and Minister for Transport - The Honorable Oliver Howard Beale](#subdebate-5-14)
* [LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION](#debate-6)
* [LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY](#debate-7)
* [PARLIAMENTARY OFFICERS](#debate-8)
* [ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1950](#debate-9)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-10)
* [CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES](#debate-11)
* [KINGSFORD-SMITH ELECTORAL DIVISION](#debate-12)
    * [Petition](#subdebate-12-0)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-13)
* [QUESTION](#debate-14)
    * [ADDRESS-IN-REPLY](#subdebate-14-0)
* [HOUR OF MEETING](#debate-15)
* [PAPERS](#debate-16)


----

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-0}
### PROCLAMATION

The House met at 10.30 a.m., pursuant to the proclamation of Hia Excellency the Governor-General. 

The  Clbbk  rcsd the proclamation. 

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-1}
### OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT

The USHER  *ov t\vb*  Black  Bop, being announced, was admitted, and .delivered the message that the Deputy of the 

Governor-General for the Opening of the Parliament requested the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 

Honorable members attended accordingly, and, having returned,- the Deputy authorized by the Governor-General to administer the oath or affirmation entered the chamber. 

The Clbbk read the commission, under the Great Seal of the Commonwealth authorizing the Bight Honorable  **Sir John**  Greig Latham, Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, to administer the oath or affirmation of allegiance to the King required by the Constitution to be taken or made bv members of the House of Representatives. 

{: .page-start }
page 16

{:#debate-2}
### MEMBERS SWORN

The Clbbk. - I have to announce that I have received from the Official Secretary to the Governor-General returns to 123 writs for the election of members of the House of Representatives, held on 10th December, 1949. 

The following honorable members made and subscribed the oath or affirmation of allegiance : - Adermann, Charles Frederick, Fisher, 

Queensland. Anderson, Charles Groves Wright, 

Hume, Hew South "Wales. Anderson, Gordon, Kingsford-Smith, 

New South "Wales. Andrews, Thomas William, Darebin, Victoria. 

Anthony, Hubert Lawrence Richmond, New South Wales. 

Bate, Henry Jefferson, Macarthur, New South Wales. 

Beale, Oliver Howard, Parramatta, New South Wales. 

Beazley, Kim Edward, Fremantle, Western Australia. 

Berry, Douglas Reginald, Griffith, Queensland. 

Bird, Alan Charles, Batman, Victoria. 

Bostock, William Dowling, Indi, Victoria. 

Bourke, William Meskill, Fawkner, Victoria. 

Bowden, George James, Gippsland, Victoria. 

Brown, Geoffrey William, McMillan, Victoria. 

Bryson, William George, /Wills, Victoria. 

 Burke, Thomas Patrick, Perth, Western Australia. Calwell, Arthur Augustus, Melbourne, Victoria. 

Cameron, Archie Galbraith, Barker, 

South Australia. Cameron, Clyde Robert, Hindmarsh, 

South Australia. Cameron, Donald Alastair, Oxley, 

Queensland. Casey, Richard Gardiner, La Trobe, 

Victoria. 

Chambers, Cyril, Adelaide, South Australia. 

Chifley, Joseph Benedict, Macquarie, New South Wales. 

Clarey, Percy James, Bendigo, Victoria. 

Clark, Joseph James, Darling, New South Wales. 

Corser, Bernard Henry, Wide Bay, Queensland. 

Costa, Dominic Eric, Banks, New South Wales. 

Cramer, John Oscar, Bennelong, New South Wales.  

Cremean, J ohn Lawrence, Hoddle, Victoria. 

Curtin, Daniel James, Watson, New South Wales. 

Daly, Frederick Michael, Grayndler, New South Wales. 

Davidson, Charles William, Dawson, Queensland. 

Davies, William, Cunningham, New South Wales. 

Davis, Francis John, Deakin, Victoria. 

Dean, Roger Levinge, Robertson, New South Wales. 

Downer, Alexander Russell, Angas, South Australia. 

Drakeford, Arthur Samuel, Maribyrnong, Victoria. 

Drummond, David Henry, New England, New South Wales. 

Drury, Edward Nigel, Ryan, Queensland. 

Duthie, Gilbert William Arthur, 

Wilmot, Tasmania. Edmonds, William Frederick, Herbert, 

Queensland. Eggins, Eldred James, Lyne, Now 

South Wales. Evatt, Herbert Vere, Barton, New 

South Wales. 

Fadden, Arthur William,  McPherson 

Queensland. Failes, Laurence John, Lawson, New 

South Wales. Fairbairn, David Eric, Farrer, New 

South Wales. Fairhall, Allen, Paterson, New South 

Wales. 

Falkinder, Charles William Jackson, Franklin, Tasmania. 

Fitzgerald, Joseph Francis, Phillip, New South Wales. 

Francis, Josiah, Moreton, Queensland. 

Fraser, Allan Duncan, Eden-Monaro, New South Wales. 

Freeth, Gordon, Forrest, Western Australia. 

Gilmore, Thomas Vernon, Leichhardt, 

Queensland. Graham, Bruce William, St. George, 

New South Wales. Grayden, William Leonard, Swan, 

Western Australia. Griffiths, Charles Edward, Shortland, 

New South Wales. Gullett, Henry Baynton Somer, Henty, 

Victoria. 

Hamilton, Leonard William, Canning, 

Western Australia. Handby, Herbert Harry, Kingston, 

South Australia. Harrison, Eli James, Blaxland, New 

South Wales. Harrison, Eric John, Wentworth, New 

South Wales. Hasluck, Paul Meernaa Caedwalla, 

Curtin, Western Australia. Haworth, William Crawford, Isaacs, 

Victoria. 

Haylen, Leslie Clement, Parkes, New South Wales. 

Holloway, Edward James, Melbourne Ports, Victoria. 

Holt, Harold' Edward, Higgins, Victoria. 

Howse, John Brooke, Calare, New 

South Wales. Hughes, William Morris, Bradfield, 

New South Wales. Hulme, Alan Shallcross, Petrie, 

Queensland. Tack, William Mathers, North Sydney, 

New South Wales. James, Rowland, Hunter, New South 

Wales. 

Johnson, Herbert Victor, Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. 

Kekwick, Bruce Huntley, Bass, Tasmania. 

Kent Hughes, Wilfred Selwyn,. Chisholm, Victoria. 

Keon, Standish Michael, Yarra, Victoria. 

Lawrence, William Robert. Wimmera, Victoria. 

Lawson, George, Brisbane, Queensland. 

Lazzarini, Hubert Peter, Werriwa,. New South Wales. 

Leslie, Hugh Alan, Moore, Western Australia. 

Lyons, Enid Muriel, Darwin, Tasmania. 

Mackinnon, Ewen Daniel, Wannon, Victoria. 

McBride, Philip Albert Martin, Wakefield, South Australia. 

McColm, Malcolm Llewellyn, Bowman, Queensland. 

McDonald, Allan McKenzie, Corangamite, Victoria. 

McEwen, John, Murray, Victoria. 

McLeay, John, Boothby, South Australia. 

McMahon, William, Lowe, New South Wales. 

Menzies, Robert Gordon, Kooyong, Victoria. 

Minogue, Daniel, West Sydney, New 

South Wales. Morgan, Charles Albert Aaron, Reid 

New South Wales. Mulcahy, Daniel, Lang, New South 

Wales. 

Mullens, John Michael, Gellibrand, Victoria. 

Nelson, John Norman, Northern Territory. 

Nott, Lewis Windermere, Australian 

Capital Territory. O'Connor, William Paul, Martin, New 

South Wales. Opperman, Hubert Ferdinand, Corio, 

Victoria. 

Osborne, Frederick Meares, Evans, New South Wales. 

Page, Earle Christmas Grafton, Cowper, New South Wales. 

Pearce, Henry George, Capricornia, Queensland. 

Peters, Edward William, Burke, Victoria. 

Pittard, Alan Crocker, Ballarat, Victoria. 

Pollard, Reginald Thomas, Lalor, Victoria. 

Riordan, William James Frederick, Kennedy, Queensland. 

Roberton, Hugh Stevenson, Riverina, New South Wales. 

Rosevear, John Solomon, Dalley, New South Wales. 

Russell, Charles Wilfred, Maranoa, Queensland. 

Russell, Edgar Hughes Deg, Grey, South Australia. 

Ryan, Rupert Sumner, Flinders, Victoria. 

Sheehan, Thomas, Cook, New South Wales. 

Spender, Percy Claude, Warringah, New South Wales. 

Swartz, Reginald William Colin, Darling Downs, Queensland. 

Thompson, Albert Victor, Port Adelaide, South Australia. 

Timson, Thomas Frank, Higinbotham, Victoria. 

Townley, Athol Gordon, Denison, Tasmania. 

Treloar, Thomas John, Gwydir, New South Wales. 

Turnbull, Winton George, Mallee, Victoria. 

Ward, Edward John, East Sydney, NewSouth Wales. 

Watkins, David Oliver, Newcastle, New South Wales. 

Wentworth, William Charles, Mackellar, New South Wales. 

Wheeler, Roy Crawford, Mitchell, New South Wales. 

White, Thomas Walter, Balaclava, Victoria. 

Wight, Bruce McDonald, Lilley, Queensland. 

Wilson, Keith Cameron, Sturt, South Australia. 

{: .page-start }
page 18

{:#debate-3}
### ELECTION OF SPEAKER

##### Mr McDONALD:<br><small class="text-muted">Corangamite.</small>

-- I move - 

  >That the honorable member for Barker  **(Mr. Archie Cameron)**  do take the chair of this House as  Speaker. 

##### Mr Bowden:

--  I second the motion. 

##### Mr ARCHIE CAMERON:<br><small class="text-muted">BARKER, SOUTH AUSTRALIA &middot; CP; LP from 1944; LCL from 1951; LP from 1954</small>

--  I accept nomination. 

##### The Clerk:

--  There being no other nominations, I declare  **Mr. Archie**  Cameron elected. 


 *Members of the House then calling* 
 **Mr. Archie** 
 *Cameron to the Chair, he was taken out of his place by* 
 **Mr. McDonald** 
 *and* 
 **Mr. Bowden** 
 *and conducted to the chair.* 



 **Mr. SPEAKER** said  I assure the House that this is the first occasion in my political career on which I have been elected to an office without opposition. At the same time I desire to thank the House for, at worst, its lack of opposition to my election, and, at best, its unanimous confidence in my ability to fulfil this duty. Henceforth, for as long as I retain this office, I shall be a servant of the House of Representatives. It is to be expected, perhaps, that the House will find me, as King Charles I. found Montrose, a rather proud servant. When I look at the forest of faces I see here to-day, my mind goes back to the ninth chapter of the Book of Judges, wherein it is recorded that a gentleman named Jotham found himself in a somewhat similar position. He tells the story of how the trees assembled together to select one to rule over them. Their first attempt was to secure the services of the olive, but the olive declined to give up his fatness and preside over the trees. On this occasion there is no doubt that, had we an olive in this House, he may have been called upon to wave his branch over us to preserve the peace. The second choice was of the fig, but the fig refused to give up his sweetness and his good fruit in order to undertake the duty. Here,our fig from Moreton has decided that he will be better employed in attending to the ships of Tyre and Tarshish and the armies of the Assyrians. The choice was next offered to the vine, but the vine refused to forsake his spirit. Here we have my friend, the honorable member for Parramatta  **(Mr. Beale),**  who has so much spirit that his leader  **(Mr. Menzies)**  decided that he should fulfil the duties and functionsthat had previously been carried out by his predecessors the honorable member for Melbourne and the honorable member for East Sydney. The fourth choice was a sensible one. The trees offered the post to the bramble, and the bramble, on accepting the post, declared to the trees assembled - 

  >If in truth ye anoint me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow; and if not, let Are come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon. 

There are one or two things that I wish ro say to the House before I take my seat in the chair. I shall be brief. It has been my belief for a long time past that the Speakership of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia should rank equally with the Speakership of the House of Commons in Great Britain. I have expressed that view time and time again. I hope that that will, in due course, eventuate. As  Speaker,  I do not propose to take any part in debates. Therefore I extend my thanks to the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  for his willingness to give me full access to Ministers so that my electorate will not suffer from my silence. The next thing I wish to tell the House is that, while I occupy the Speaker's chair, I shall not, in any circumstances, attend party meetings. I believe that the honorable member who presides over our deliberations should come into the chamber with his mind uninfluenced by the decisions of any political party. I assure honorable members that only after long deliberation did I agree to accept nomination for this post. From my own point of view there are many things against it. I assure the House that a situation might easily arise in which it will be much easier for me to relinquish my duties as  Speaker  than to continue to administer them. I merely say that " Auld Gillespie " will take the chair, and I sincerely pray that the good Lord will have mercy on all of you. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *having seated himself in the chair.* 


##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

--  **Mr. Speaker,**  on behalf of the Government and of honorable members generally, I should like to offer our congratulations to you on your occupancy of the chair. In spite of the faint hint of an uncommon doubt that had entered your mind just before you sat down, we believe that you will be a great success in the chair. You have had an immense experi ence both in the Parliament of South Australia and in the Parliament of the Commonwealth. You are extremely familiar - sometimes embarrassingly familiar - with the Standing Orders. In fact, in order to get on to some terms of equality with you, we propose to take early steps to change the Standing Orders so that, at least to some degree, we may start from "scratch". We know that, although you have always had your full part in political controversy, your abilities and your high character are universally recognized in this House, and, therefore, you will receive great personal respect as well as the respect that is held for your office. 

The only other thing that I should like to say to you, sir, is that those of us who belong to that growing group of members who have been suspended from the service of the House take great comfort from the fact that you know what it feels like, and, therefore, we anticipate with great confidence that you will do your disciplining gently. 

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Macquarie</small>

-- On behalf of members of the Opposition,  **Mr. Speaker,**  I take this opportunity to congratulate you very sincerely and, indeed, it gives me great pleasure to do so apart from the more formal congratulations that the occasion requires, on your elevation to the high office of  Speaker  of this House. Regardless of differences of opinion that may have existed between us while you occupied a position on the floor of this House, my colleagues and I have the highest regard for your personal honesty and integrity. Those are great qualifications for the position which you will occupy, and I feel confident, and I hope that this confidence will be completely justified, that you will dispense even-handed justice as the custodian of the rights, privileges and procedures of this House. The Prime Minister has referred to your experience as a member of the Parliament of South Australia and the Parliament of the Commonwealth, and that leads me to believe that you will make au excellent presiding officer. There have been occasions when you have differed very strongly from rulings that have been given by the occupant of the chair. Who was right or who was wrong only time will prove, but you, sir, do know where the holes in the fences are, and  I  feel sure that, because you have the knowledge, you will be a worthy custodian of the rights of the House. 

I should like to make one appeal to you. I listened with great interest to your announcement that while you held the position of Speaker, you did not propose to take any part in debates or to attend any party meetings. I assume that, in adopting that course, you will he following the practice of successive Speakers of the House of Commons. However, I have some feelings of regret because we shall no longer be treated to orations such as you have delivered in your picturesque language in the past.  1  have differed very strongly from some of the views that you have expressed from time to time but I feel that the House will be the loser as the result of your decision not to take part in debates and it was with regret that we learned that you would not entertain us in debate as you had done in the past. "When I heard your statement about your decision to raise yourself so far above party politics  I  recalled a book by Anatole France in which he described a sinner who turned saint. Now that you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  have reached this stage of saintliness which all of us hope to reach and about which some of us are not so sure at the moment,  I  point out to you that some of the members of the Opposition may incur your wrath or venture to disagree with your rulings. May I suggest to you that, in dispensing justice even-handedly, as I know you will do, you will remember the saintly quality of mercy. When I listened to your concluding remarks, I felt a cold shiver, but I recall the high standards that you have set for yourself, and I hope that you will have some regard for the sinners whom you have left behind on the floor of the House. 

##### Mr ROSEVEAR:<br><small class="text-muted">Dalley</small>

-- May I be permitted, as your immediate predecessor,  **Mr. Speaker,**  to congratulate you on being successful in catching the eye of the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies).**  At the same time,  I  congratulate the Prime Minister on his great wisdom in placing you in the chair. 

I do not know whether you hinted to him that if you became  **Mr. Speaker,**  you would not take part in debates; but I think that, from his point of view, it is safer to have you in the chair rather than on his flank. 

Another reason why  I  take this opportunity to congratulate you is that on the first occasion on which  I  was elected Speaker, you, as a private member, were good enough to congratulate me, and to make a prophecy that I would not occupy the chair for long. I do not propose to make any prophecies on this occasion, but  I  am fairly certain that if you had taken your place on the floor of the House, and not in the safe haven of the chair, the 'Government's expectation of life would have been considerably shortened. However, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives has much to learn. He must study the ways and habits of honorable members, and learn the Standing Orders.  I  have to admit that you, sir, had a great advantage over any other aspirant on the Government side of the chamber for the office of  **Mr. Speaker,'**  because I do not think that any member of the Opposition in the last Parliament raised so many points of order as you did, and was so consistently incorrect as you were. By the process of trial and error, you have had a remarkable opportunity to learn how to interpret the Standing Orders correctly. What you do in future will depend upon your own interpretations of the Standing Orders. However, putting that matter aside, I believe that a wiser choice for  **Mr. Speaker**  could not have been made. I consider that you are thoroughly honest in your convictions, and that any ruling which you may give will he a well-considered and honest one. I believe also that, at all times, you will be capable of meting out justice impartially to members of all parties. I attach considerable importance to that personal quality. I do not desire to express the wish that you will occupy the office of  **Mr. Speaker**  for a long period. Of course, the expression of such a hope by a member of the Opposition would hardly be natural, but while you are the presiding officer here  I  am thoroughly convinced, by the independence of thought that you have displayed as  a  private member, that you will give justice to every one, and that this House  will  have reason to be proud of the fact  that  it has chosen you to preside over  it.  I regret that you will not take part in party meetings, because I believe that  if  you were to attend them, you would  at  least stir things up for the Government and perhaps make a contribution  to  the shortening of its life. I heartily congratulate you again on the honour  that  has been conferred on you. I believe  that  you are thoroughly competent to perforin the duties of  **Mr. Speaker.**  I believe also that you are completely fairminded and are prepared to give every  one  a fair " go ". No one can expect more than that. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:


 **-(Hon.** Archie Cameron). - I thank the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies),**  the right honorable member for Macquarie  **(Mr. Chifley)**  and the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  for their congratulations and  the  kind things that they have said about  me.  I assure the right honorable member for Macquarie that I have no aspirations to sainthood. In the long- history  of  the House of Commons, only one  **Speaker, Sir Thomas**  More, has been raised to the altar of the Church, and  he  was Speaker for only one session. I  am  keenly conscious of my own shortcomings and those honorable members  who  have been associated with me for a long time may have noticed some of them. I again thank the Prime Minister,  the  right honorable member for Macquarie and the honorable member for Dalley for their kind personal references  to  me. 

Presentation to GOVERNOR-GENERAL. 


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong- Prime Minister). - I beg to inform honorable members that His Excellency the Governor-General will receive the newly elected Speaker in the Library at 2.36 p.m. this day. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Prior to my presentation to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral the bells will be rung for three minutes, so that those honorable members who so desire may accompany me to the Library and there be presented to  His Excellency. 


 *Sitting suspended from 11.85 a.m. to 2.88 p.m.* 



 *The House proceeded to the Library, and, having re-assembled,* 


##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to report that, accompanied by honorable members, I proceeded to the Library of the Parliament and presented myself to His Excellency the Governor-General as the choice of the House, and that His Excellency was kind enough to congratulate me on my election as Speaker. 


 *Sitting suspended from 2.40 to 8.4 p.m.* 


The Usher of the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered a message that  His Excellency  the Governor-General desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *and honorable members attended accordingly and, having returned,* 


{: .page-start }
page 21

{:#debate-4}
### COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-(Hon. Archie Cameron). - I have received from His Excellency the Governor-General a commission authorizing me to administer to members of the House the oath, or affirmation, of allegiance. I now lay the commission on the table. 

{: .page-start }
page 21

{:#debate-5}
### FOURTH MENZIES MINISTRY

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

-- I formally announce to the House the names of Ministers constituting the new Ministry - 

{:#subdebate-5-0}
#### Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, K.C

Treasurer - The Right Honorable Arthur "William Fadden. 

Minister for Defence and Minister for Post-war Reconstruction - The Honorable Eric John Harrison. 

{:#subdebate-5-1}
#### Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt

Minister for Commerce and Agriculture - The Honorable John McEwen. 

{:#subdebate-5-2}
#### Minister for External Affairs and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable Percy Claude Spender, K.C

{:#subdebate-5-3}
#### Minister for Supply and Development and Minister for Works and Housing - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C

Minister for the Interior - The  Honorable  Philip Albert Martin McBride. 

{:#subdebate-5-4}
#### Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H

Minister for Trade and Customs -  **Senator the**  Honorable Neil O'Sullivan. 

Minister for Shipping and Fuel -  **Senator the**  Honorable George McLeay. 

{:#subdebate-5-5}
#### Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable Thomas Walter White. D.F.C., V.D

{:#subdebate-5-6}
#### Postmaster-General - The Honorable Hubert Lawrence Anthony

Minister for the Army and Minister for the Navy - The Honorable Josiah Francis. 

Attorney-General -  **Senator the**  Honorable John Armstrong Spicer, K.C. 

Vice-President of the Executive Council - The Honorable Dame Enid Muriel Lyons, G.B.E. 

Minister for Social Services  **-Senator the**  Honorable William Henry Spooner. 

Minister for Repatriation -  **Senator the**  Honorable Walter Jackson Cooper, M.B.E. 

{:#subdebate-5-7}
#### Minister for Information and Minister for Transport - The Honorable Oliver Howard Beale

Senate Ministers will be represented in this House as follows: - The Minister for Trade and Customs will be represented by the Minister for Defence  **(Mr. Harrison),**  The Minister for Shipping and Fuel will be represented by the Postmaster-General  **(Mr. Anthony).**  The Attorney-General will be represented by myself. The Minister for Social Services will be represented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  **(Mr. Holt).**  The Minister for Repatriation will be represented by the Minister for the Army  **(Mr. Francis).** 

In addition, I desire to announce the appointment of the following honorable members to be Parliamentary UnderSecretaries: - The honorable member for 

Franklin  **(Mr. Falkinder),**  the honorable member for Canning  **(Mr. Hamilton)**  and the honorable member for Calare  **(Mr. Howse).** 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-6}
### LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Macquarie</small>

-- I desire to announce that I have been chosen as Leader of the Opposition and that the right honorable member for Barton  **(Dr. Evatt)**  as been chosen as  Deputy  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-7}
### LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY

##### Mr FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Treasurer &middot; McPherson &middot; CP</small>

-- I desire to announce that I have been appointed; Leader of the Australian Country party and the honorable member for Murray  **(Mr. McEwen)**  has been appointed  Deputy  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-8}
### PARLIAMENTARY OFFICERS

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- It is with regret that I inform the House of the death since the last meeting of the previous Parliament of the Second  Clerk-  Assistant,  **Mr. S.**  F. Chubb. Consequent upon this loss to the staff,  **Mr. A.**  G. Turner has been appointed Second Clerk-Assistant and  **Mr. N.**  J. Parkes, Sergeant-at-Arms. 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-9}
### ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1950

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be given to bring in  a  bill  for  an act to amend the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1948. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-10}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

address-in-reply. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to report that the House this day attended His Excellency the Governor-General in the Senate chamber, where His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of the Parliament, of which I have obtained a copy  *(vide*  page 6). 

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That a committee, consisting of  **Mr. Opperman, Mr. Roberton,**  and the mover, be appointed to prepare an Address-in-Reply to  the Speech delivered by His Excellency the Governor-General to both Houses of the Parliament, and that the committee do report this day. 

{: .page-start }
page 23

{:#debate-11}
### CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES

##### Mr BOWDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Gippsland</small>

-- I move - 

  >That the honorable member for Fisher  **(Mr. Adermann)**  be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

I have every confidence in recommending the honorable member to the House  as  one who will do honour to the position of Chairman of Committees and administer the duties of that office with fairness, dignity and strict impartiality. 

##### Mr RYAN:<br><small class="text-muted">Flinders</small>

-- I have great pleasure in seconding the motion. In common with other honorable members who have served in earlier parliaments, I  am  well acquainted with the honorable member for Fisher and I know that  he  will conduct his duties with impartiality and great efficiency. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister.- On behalf of the Government, and also, I am sure, of all honorable members, I congratulate the honorable member for Fisher '(Mr. Adermann &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

upon his appointment. He has been  a  member 'of the Australian Parliament for some  yeaTs  and  he  has established, t think with all honorable  members, a  -very high reputation for his quiet approach to problems, his highly intelligent grasp of them, his knowledge of the business of the House and his knowledge of parliamentary procedure. I  am  sure that all honorable members look forward to  !a  very successful term of office for him  as  Chairman of Committees. 

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Macquarie</small>

-- I join with the Prime Minister f&amp;Ir. Menzies) in offering congratulations to the honorable member for Fisher  **(Mr. Adermann)**  upon his appointment  as  Chairman of Committees. I have never known him to show any signs of violence when  he  has temporarily occupied that position on other occasions, and I  am  sure  lie  will continue to extend to  us  the courtesy that  he  has shown hitherto. He has always  exhibited fairness to honorable members and acted in accordance with the dignity  of the Parliament. 

##### Mr ADERMANN:<br><small class="text-muted">Fisher</small>

-- I thank -. the House for  my  election to the respon sible position of Chairman of Committees. I fully appreciate the responsibilities  of  the office. Its occupant requires not only a knowledge of the Standing Orders, but also a knowledge of the needs of the Parliament. I am sure that we shall all co-operate well in the conduct  of  business in committee and that the attitude of honorable members to the  Chairman  of Committees will aid me in the discharge of my duties. I thank the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  and the Leader of the Opposition'  **(Mr. Chifley)**  for their congratulations. I noted the remarks that were made by you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  this morning, when you expressed a desire that the conduct of this House should be maintained on the highest level of British tradition. I assure honorable members that, to the degree that committee work enters into the conduct of parliamentary business and to the utmost of my ability, I shall endeavour to satisfy that desire. 


 *Sitting suspended from 3.1(8 to 5 p.m.* 


{: .page-start }
page 23

{:#debate-12}
### KINGSFORD-SMITH ELECTORAL DIVISION

{:#subdebate-12-0}
#### Petition

The CLERK laid upon the table a copy of an election petition which he had received from the District Registrar of the High Court, at Sydney, under section 196 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, viz..: - Petition of Henry William Crittenden against the return of Gordon Anderson as member for KingsfordSmith. 

{: .page-start }
page 23

{:#debate-13}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

{: .page-start }
page 23

{:#debate-14}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-14-0}
#### ADDRESS-IN-REPLY


 **Mr. -SPEAKER** (Hon. Archie  Cameron). - Before I call upon the honorable .member for Corio  **(Mr. Opperman),**  I intimate to the House, particularly because it contains, a majority of members with no parliamentary experience, that it is the custom in this House when an honorable member is making his maiden speech that  he  shall be heard in silence and without interjection. 


 **Mr.. Opperman",** for the committee appointed to prepare an Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General'^ Speech  *(vide*  page -.22), presented the proposed address, which was read by the  Clerk. 

##### Mr OPPERMAN:<br><small class="text-muted">Corio</small>

.- I move - 

  >That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: - 
  >
  >May it please Youn Excellency: 
  >
  >We, the House of Representatives of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 

Because of the responsibility involved, I move the Address-in-Reply with a sense of some diffidence. I have also a feeling of inspiration and of admiration at the wide scope of  His  Excellency's Speech. That scope covers the future planning and development of Australia. I shall deal with some of its objectives, and some of the ideas that have appealed to me, as a new member of this House. 

It is a source of great satisfaction and pleasure to us to know that His Majesty the King, Queen Elizabeth and Princess Margaret intend to visit Australia. A fact that is worthy of great admiration is that His Majesty, after passing through an illness which might have given him every reason to take life very easily for some time to come, is still fulfilling his public engagements in England and has also indicated his intention to visit Australia. We hope that his heavy duties in England will not prevent that visit from being made. I believe that Australians, despite the fact that they are not effusive or emotional people, have a very strong regard for the Mother Country and will manifest that feeling by their attitude during His Majesty's visit in 1952. 

One of the outstanding matters dealt with by  His Excellency  was the development of rural industry. We all know that our secondary industries have achieved magnificent results and have contributed largely to Australia's development. During the war that development was due to the great demand for war materials, and since the termination of the conflict it has been promoted by the keen demand for materials to speed our return to civilian life. No doubt the increase of population by about 1,000,000 has also contributed to our development. In many cases that expansion has been at the expense of the rural industries, which are of such great value to this country and produce much of its revenue. The rural man goes on the land because he belongs to it. He has a feeling for the land and lacks the normal outlook of the city man on hours and industrial conditions. He fights the vagaries of the weather and generally carries on his business in a way that merits the admiration of all Australian citizens. However, we find that even in these days he lacks the amenities which are an ordinary part of city life. Sometimes the attractions of the city are a lure to young people, because in many parts of the country electric light is not available, nor is electric power to drive the many machines that make life more bearable to country dwellers. Those young people have their normal country outlook diverted citywards. It is quite apparent, therefore, that it is out of regard for the future of Australia that the emphasis in the Governor-General's Speech has been placed on the development of the rural industries. The present bank accounts of the farmers must not be regarded as an indication of their continuing financial status because, being wise men and looking ahead, they must invest in fencing and other installations to provide greater efficiency in times of lower income. They desire to provide in the seven years of plenty for the seven lean years. Therefore, the constitution of a Ministry of National Development will place a proper emphasis on the rural side of Australian progress. 

In this visualization of prosperity it is essential to think of those who have been left behind during our progressive years. Many of our citizens have been through the ups and downs of Australian commercial history during depression and war and are now in the twilight of their lives. They find that they are falling behind when it is too late for them to adapt themselves to rising costs and changing conditions. I refer to people who are on fixed incomes, such as those that are derived from superannuation and pensions of various kinds. For those people life is very difficult. When I heard  His Excellency  refer to the anomalies that are caused by the means test I recalled the pathetic cases in my electorate of some people who throughout their lives have tried to make provision for their  old age but have now been left with practically nothing. They will see in that reference in the Speech of the GovernorGeneral a prospect of some alleviation of the austerity of their present plight. 

There is another section of the community to whom we owe a tremendous debt of gratitude. I am glad that I have the opportunity in this, my maiden speech in the House, to refer to those whose efforts and sacrifices have enabled us to live in peace and security to-day. I refer, of course, to the members of the three armed services; to all those who served their country in the forces, and to the many who came hack broken and maimed and nerve-shattered. I saw amongst those who joined the forces fresh-faced boys, strong in their loyalty, not knowing what lay ahead of them, but prepared to face it. I saw also mature, family men, who realized what war meant, but who were prepared to sacrifice themselves, and who did, in fact, sacrifice themselves, for the defence of Australia. It is good to learn that the Government proposes to look after the interests of ex-servicemen. There should be no economic penalty for disablement. Disillusionment should not be the reward of those who have suffered for their country. Just as war widows and their dependants are to be looked after, so also those who suffer disabilities as the result of their war service may take heart, realizing that they will be treated with sympathy and consideration. 

However, the ability of the Government to deal generously with these deserving sections of the community is dependent upon Australia being prosperous and progressive, and Australia's prosperity and progression depend on production. Markets not yet fully supplied are waiting to receive our products. Production has fallen behind since the war, and if additional money is distributed throughout the community while the supply of/ goods remains inadequate it will not be possible to avoid black marketing and inflation. The solution is in our own hands, and in the hands of the workers. I believe that the workers of Australia to-day are more conscious than ever of the important part they play in making it possible for their fellow-Australians to balance the budget. The more production falls behind in one industry the harder it will be on those working in other industries. More production and more competition mean cheaper goods, and in that way it will be possible to put more value into the pound. 

Out of the war there has developed a certain cynicism of outlook. No one actually wins a war. Even if a nation emerges from war apparently prosperous, its people have suffered a corrosion of spirit, and have developed an outlook wholly foreign to them in times of normal living. That condition must be broken down. As the war recedes into the past it will be possible to establish a better understanding between the various sections of the community, between those who are engaged in industrial, commercial and professional occupations. Time after time during the last few months, I have had the privilege of speaking to Australian workers. I believe that the Australian worker is a thinker. He is not easily swayed by his emotions, and he is capable of working things out for himself. If he believes that he is getting fair and equitable treatment he will respond in kind. That, I am convinced, is the belief of the Government, too. It is evident from the Speech of the Governor-General that the Government proposes to do everything it can to promote understanding and tolerance between employers and employees so that they will form a team for the better development of Australia. If the Australian worker really believes that he is getting a fair and equitable return for his labour, he will bring a different outlook to the job. Being a sportsman, he knows that the best results can be obtained only under capable leadership. He knows that he cannot be just an independent, a man out on his own. There must be some one at the top to direct affairs, and it is in that conviction that we look forward confidently to the future. If the various sections of the community are pulling in different directions it will not be possible to provide proper amenities for workers and ex-servicemen, and for those engaged in rural industries. The Australian worker knows that in sport the best results are obtained by consistency in preparation and by competition. If the score does not go on the board the opportunity ie lost for ever. The workers are realizing now that when there are industrial stoppages, no money goes in their pay envelopes, and neither they nor Australia as a whole can benefit. "We are still feeling the repercussions of the coal strike, even though it took place a considerable time ago. The effects are being felt in shortages of coal and steel, and these shortages are, in turn, affecting production in rural industries. 

In the wide and varied pattern of legislation forecast in the Governor-General's Speech we see the prospect of a safe and stable existence. The democratic system, of course, allows for dissentient voices. It is a part of the set-up, and it is right that it should be so. However, if dissentient voices be raised, and if criticism be offered of the Government's plan of legislation, all I ask is that the critics should be moved by a desire to promote the best interests of Australia, and not by considerations of political strategy. 

I thank honorable members for the traditional tolerance which has been extended to me. It will be a great comfort to those of my colleagues, and my opposite numbers on the other side of the chamber, who have yet to go through this ordeal. "We who are present in this Parliament for the first time have a deep sense of the solemn responsibility which rests upon us in being called upon to legislate on behalf of the people. Australia is a marvellous country, and I have had the privilege of being able to compare it with other countries. Because of its geographical features, the fertility of its soil, and the work of the pioneers, we have something that is the envy of the rest of the world. We new members feel that it is a wonderful thing for us to be here at the opening of the Nineteenth Parliament. We know that many honorable members have had wider experience and greater length of service. The influence that those honorable members will have on us new members, even though we may have our own independence and our own sense of individuality, must, to a great extent, mould our outlook and our ideas. I know that, just as the juvenile admires the champion, walks like him, acts like him, and follows his example, so we, in our malleable condition will be fashioned by the example set us by the older members of this House. Perhaps those honorable members have become, to some extent, a little blase and cynical in the political arena. As time goes on and we draw from the storehouse of their knowledge, our freshness may cause a softening of their political hardness. I believe that in this Nineteenth Parliament the future of Australia can be made more secure, greater and grander than ever. I appreciate the privilege of being selected to reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General, and I thank the House for that privilege. 

##### Mr ROBERTON:<br><small class="text-muted">Riverina</small>

.- I rise to second the motion. Good fortune and the electors of the division of Riverina have favoured me in my election to this Nineteenth Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, and I am profoundly grateful for that fact - or was until a few moments ago. Good fortune and the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies),**  together with the Leader of the Australian Country party  **(Mr. Fadden),**  have favoured me in my selection to second the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I am not without a deep sense of appreciation, although all the evidence might be against it. Good; fortune and the eloquence of the honorable member for Corio  **(Mr. Opperman)**  have made my task comparatively simple. But there, I am afraid, and for the time being, by good fortune has come to an end.. I now go down to my disaster, and I must suffer the anguish that seems to be inseparable from every maiden speech. It is noconsolation to me to know that honorable members who have to listen to me must share this agony. I hope,  **Mr. Speaker,,**  that we can bear it with Christian fortitude. I should like to draw the attention, of the House to the fact that the honorable member for Corio is not the only man in this place who has engaged in athletics. I myself at one time tossed the caber.. That I did not toss it very far was entirely due to the fact that it was a very largecaber and that I was only a little fellow at that time. 

I listened with a great deal of interest to the Speech that was delivered by HisExcellency the Governor-General when heopened the Parliament this afternoon. I. must express my personal satisfaction and I am sure, the satisfaction of every good Australian man and woman, at the feeling references that were made to the grave illness that afflicted our beloved King and prevented him from visiting us last year with Her Majesty the Queen and Princess Margaret; also at the feeling references that were made to His Majesty's almost miraculous recovery, because of which their Majesties hope to visit us in 1952 when, if I may be permitted to quote His Excellency's own words, " They may be assured of a loving welcome from our loyal and British community". If I never say anything else in this House, may I be permitted to repeat that statement. They may be assured of a loving welcome from our loyal and British community. 

One of the saddest features of the insidious attacks that have been made on our democratic systems and institutions is that the British monarchy has never been excluded entirely from these attacks. There is only one way to defend a good King, and throughout our history British men and women have always been willing to take that way. We are not likely to neglect that duty. So I was very proud to note the reference of the Governor-General to the great affection that goes out from the hearts of the people of Australia towards Their Most Gracious Majesties the King and Queen. 

There is no great merit in being loyal to a good King unless we can be loyal to his entire kingdom, and there is no merit in being loyal to the Empire unless we are willing to accept' our fair share of imperial responsibilities. Therefore, it was with considerable satisfaction that I heard the Governor-General state the intention of the new Government to establish a parliamentary standing committee on foreign affairs. That intention must give satisfaction to those of us who have been seriously concerned at the trend of current events. During the last few years we have become estranged from our relations and have failed to choose our friends with discrimination. That, I think, is a very serious position which can only excite the cupidity of our enemies. That position, in my humble -opinion, is due to the folly of leaving the foreign policy of this important country to one man or a particular group of men. We must get back into the Empire and be prepared to play our part within it. We must go right out into the world and find an affinity with those people who believe in the same things as we do. If the future of this great country is to be confined to affinity with the native races of the countries of SouthEast Asia, then the outlook is very grim, not only for us, but also for them. We alone have very little to offer them and they alone have very little to offer us; but within the British Empire we can play our part, the full part of nationhood, and we can be of some use in South-East Asia, apart altogether from exclusive affinity with the native races of that area. I was pleased to hear His Excellency say that a parliamentary standing committee on foreign affairs is to be established for that purpose. 

I was also pleased to note that it is the intention of the Government to reintroduce a form of service training that will provide for the Navy, the Army, and the Air Force. On that point I have something to say that I should give a great deal not to have cause to say. With some experience in two world wars it is my mournful conviction that if we ever engage in a third world war, and if the political confusion that obtained during the recent war is allowed to continue, we shall lose the third world war. We must restore to our people a sense of individual patriotism which, in my opinion, was destroyed by the political confusion that existed during the last war, particularly during the years from 1941 to the end of the conflict. That political confusion caused us, a single people, a single country, to have two armies, one allegedly to fight abroad when it was permitted to stay in battle, and the other to fight at home. Notwithstanding that our kith and kin were incarcerated in prison camps in a number of places throughout all those years, we did nothing to advance their liberation. If it be reasonable to expect one man to do his duty, or one woman to do her duty, it is also reasonable to expect that all men and women shall do their duty now that this Government proposes to give them the opportunity to do so. Having restored our loyalty to, and our good relationship with, not only the Empire, but also the rest of the world, and having revived our patriotic intention to defend our country against aggression, the next step seems to be the restoration of true democracy. The Governor-General's speech, in my opinion, was a manifestation of the Government's intention to do that, if of nothing else. 

I noted that  His Excellency  made reference of the drift of population to the cities. That drift may be alternatively described as the general exodus from the bush which is the most serious social disaster that has afflicted this country up to this point in our history. There is, however, a complete and simple explanation and solution of this problem. The cause of the drift to the cities is that right from the beginning our primary industries have been tied to the chariot wheels of export parity prices and have been required to go wheresoever those chariot wheels dragged them. That is the cause of our land disaster. It brought ruin to much of our best arable land and to many of our finest country people. Because I myself experienced' from day to day this descent to the depths, I remember very vividly making representations to a previous government for the adoption of all sorts of palliatives and expedients that might be expected to meet this desperate situation. All that was ever attempted and all that was ever done was the depreciation of our currency and of sterling and it was of material assistance. Since then, of course, our primary industries have been rebuilt from the ruins on a depreciated currency. But just when the primary industries were recovering, and the chariot wheels were taking us from a condition of desperation to a condition of comparative prosperity, we were cut down from the chariot wheels and tied to an entirely different arrangement - an international scheme of things - and to the introduction of practices that had never before been attempted in this or any other country. A variety of prices was determined to suit a variety of political purposes. I want to see this country, if it does nothing else, close the gap that exists between the standard of living which is conceded to the secondary and tertiary industries and the urban population so that the same standard will be enjoyed by the valiant men and women who go out into thearable and pastoral areas of this country and bring them to production. That, in my opinion, is the complete answer tothe problem of the drift of population to the cities. If the standard of living available to our country people were on the level that is available in the urban areas, I have no doubt that instead of there being a drift to the cities there would be a drift away from the cities back to a better land. As a primary producer and as a member of the Australian Country party it gives me pride to know that democracy had its genesis in the ownership of production, particularly primary production. That is frequently forgotten in exalted places such as this. When there was no ownership of production there was no production, and there was no democracy. When the ownership of production was in dispute or in confusion there was still no production and still no democracy. When the ownership of production was vested in the wrong people, production was negligible, and there was still no democracy. It was not until the ownership of production was vested in the producers that production came into its own and democracy was fashioned. It is a democratic fact that up to this point whenever a man or woman goes out on to the land and brings it to production they stand possessed of their production. Some time ago, in order to serve a different purpose, I stated the matter this way: The produce of' the land should belong in its entirety to the producers, subject only to the discharge of their lawful obligations, but during the last few years we have seen serious departures from that fundamental principle of democratic production even though such a procedure was not considered to be in keeping with democratic government. Governments imagined that they stood possessed of the production of the country and disposed of that production to the prejudice of the producers. 

Thus, I was happy to hear the Governor-General say when referring to the conferences that are being held in London to devise a wool stabilization scheme, that this Government was taking cognizance of the fact that it stood possessed of no' wool. If every government could have viewed the matter in that light a lot of what has happened might have been avoided. The only chance that this Government has of getting wheat is either to grow it or buy it; and should it buy it, it must pay for it on just terms. That is provided under the Constitution. This Government stands possessed of no wool and the only way in which it can get any wool is for the Prime Minister or some of his colleagues to grow it or for the Government to buy it. Again, if it buys it, it must settle for it on just terms. The High Court, which is the last court of appeal in this country, has interpreted " just terms " to mean the value of that which is acquired at the date of acquisition. When we hear governments talking of agreements such as the meat agreement with the United Kingdom in terms of fifteen years, unless we have confidence in such governments we can only feel concerned because no government has any meat for sale. If the Government wants to obtain meat for sale it must buy it, and pay for it on just terms. So, it is necessary to recognize that in the final analysis the decision in regard to all the proposals mentioned by the Governor-General this afternoon in relation to marketing schemes must rest with the producer and with no one else. I am aware that it is the intention of this Government to submit these proposals to the growers before any final decision is made. To me, that is entirely satisfactory. 

It was satisfactory to me, too, to hear the Governor-General say that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a bill to prevent any industry from being nationalized unless power be given to it to do so by referendum expressing the consent of the people. I must confess to a sense of weariness when I hear the charges that are constantly being levelled against our democratic systems and institutions. These systems and institutions with all their failures have brought us thus far along the road of social, political and economic progress farther, and in a shorter period of time, tiran the systems and institutions of any other country have brought any other people since the dawn of human history. Yet, time and time again, these systems and institutions are being attacked not only for their individual destruction but also for the destruction of democracy itself. I have tried, so far as I have been able to do so, to make an intensive study of these democratic systems and institutions. Long ago I reached the conclusion, in spite of all that is said to the contrary, that at no stage have they ever been fixed institutions. They have been designed by ordinary men and women to serve ordinary men and women and there their functions begin and end. At no time have they been fixed. They have always been in a constant state of flux and change and they have always sent out a challenge to the intelligence and experience of the people whom they were designed to serve. For 150 years we in this country have accepted that challenge and for hundreds of years the peoples of the British Empire have accepted it. If, at any time, these systems and institutions - and banking is only one of the minor ones - have revealed in actual practice any faults, flaws or frailties the people have always taken the necessary legislative action to correct the flaws, amend the faults, and alter the systems and institutions until they measured up to the changing circumstances of modern society. I believe with all that I have and am that that is still the position among the relatively fittest of the Australian community, that they are anxious and willing to accept that challenge. If there are any excesses, or abuses, the solution is not an ignominious surrender to the abstract political philosophy of that poor old German Jew, Karl Marx, who was driven out of Germany, France and Belgium to find the only sanctuary that he ever knew in the democracy of Great Britain, where he died nearly 70 years ago. That is not the solution; the solution is to correct excesses and abuses until our democratic systems and institutions measure up to what we desire of them. So far as I am in a position to judge the GovernorGeneral's message to us this afternoon can only be interpreted as a reaffirmation of faith in ourselves as a free people, in our country as a component part of the British Commonwealth of Nations and in. our future as a democratic community anxious to do justice to every section and to offer a good and splendid life to every man, woman and child, free from the bitter prejudices of the past, the desperate pressure groups of the present and the fears of the future. 

Debate (on motion by  **Mr. Chifley)**  adjourned. 

{: .page-start }
page 30

{:#debate-15}
### HOUR OF MEETING

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to to-morrow, at 2.30 p.m. 

{: .page-start }
page 30

{:#debate-16}
### PAPERS

The following papers were presented :  - 

  >Audit Act - Finance - Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure for year 1948-49, accompanied by the Report of the Auditor-General. 

Ordered to be printed. 

Air Force Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 82, 86, 115. 

Apple and Pear Organization Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 108, 110. 

Arbitration (Public Service) Act - Determinations by the Arbitrator, &amp;c - 1949 - 

No. 80 - Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 81 - Federated Public Service Assistants' Association of Australia. 

No. 82 - Commonwealth Storemen and Packers' Union of Australia. 

No. 83 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No. 84 - Postal Overseers' Union of Australia. 

Nos. 85 and 86 - Australian Journalists' Association. 

Nos. 87 and 88 - Commonwealth Public  Service Artisans' Association. 

No. 89 - Postal Telecommunications  Technicians' Association (Australia). 

No. 90 - Printing Industry Employees'  Union of Australia. 

No. 91 - Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 

No. 92 - Commonwealth Public Service  Artisans' Association. 

No. 93 - Commonwealth Public Service  Clerical Association. 

No. 94 - Australian Workers' Union. 

No. 95 - Commonwealth Public Service 

 Clerical Association. 

No. 96 - Customs Officers' Association of  Australia, Fourth Division. 

No. 97 - Fourth Division Postmasters,  Postal Clerks and Telegraphists'  Union. 

No. 98 - Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 99 - Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 

No. 100 - Meat Inspectors' Association, Commonwealth Public Service; and others. 

No. 101 - Meat Inspectors' Association, Commonwealth Public Service. 

No. 102 - Amalgamated Engineering Union. 

No. 103 - Association of Officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Indus trial Research Organization. 

No. 104 - Federated Ironworkers' Asso ciation of Australia; and others. 

No. 105 - Federated Ironworkers' Asso ciation of Australia. 

No. 106 - Commonwealth Storemen and Packers' Union of Australia; and Commonwealth Naval Storehousemen's  Association. 

Bankruptcy Act - Rules - Statutory Rules  1949, No. 100. 

Canned Fruits Export Control Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 119, 120. 

Coal Excise Act - Regulations - Statutory  Rules 1949, No. 112. 

Commonwealth Bank Act - Appointment Certificates - W. C. Bourke, A. S. Hams,  A. S. Machin. 

Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act - Annual Report by Chief Conciliation  Commissioner, dated 15th November, 1949. 

Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 90. 

Commonwealth Public Service Act - 

Appointments - Department - 

  Army - W. J. Harrison, A. Watson. 

  Commerce and Agriculture - A. R. 

 Campbell, W. A. Westerman. 

Defence - G. V. Candy, N. G. McNaught,  J. M. Steele, R. C. Whitehead. 

Health- R. L. Aujard, L. F. Dods, S. A. Mibus, G. Pasquarelli, J. F. Richardson, M. Sendak, T. N.  Swindon. 

Immigration - W. A. Birtwistle. 

Interior - M. R. Irving, J. C. B. Jackson, 

 G. T. Kemp, D. I. Nicholson. 

Labour and National Service - C. T.  Coyte, E. McDonald. 

Parliamentary Library - H. J. Gibbney,  I. D. Raymond. 

Postmaster-General - P. Freadman. 

Post-war Reconstruction - H. W. Allen, J. R. L. Hocking, L. J. Hume, T. 

 Langford-Smith, G. Rudduck. 

Repatriation - E. B. Ackroyd, L. R. Crouch, B. N. Dawson, B. C. Everard. G. U. Grogan, A. R. Hardy, W.  *G.*  Harvey, F. E. Smith. 

Shipping and Fuel - J. Bruce, W. B.  Nicholson. 

Supply and Development - P. B. Atkins. R. A. Baddams, H. G. Ball, K. A. Buckley, J. A. Clark, A. K. M. Edwards, C. A. Everingham, J. L. Harvey, J. A. Heath, R. E. Hind, H. J. Lawrence, L. A. Murphy. V. J. Payne, K. R. Vale, B. P. Walpole, E. B. Ware, F. W. Wood, W. F. Yann. 

Treasury - F. W. Huxham, J. P. Kemp, C.R. Morgan, A. D. Taylor. 

Works and Housing- -J. Ashton, G. R. O. Davis, L. C. Day, K. S. Ealcs, R. L. Franklin, G. W. Hughes, R. H. Kennedy, K. G. Lewis, J. P. McCusker, R. R. Middlecoat, S. J. Ryan, B. G. A. Smith, R. W. Smith, S. J. Smith, T. C. H. Tacey, C.O.  Tesch, D. B. Vallance, H. M. Wilson.  T. C. Wolferstan. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos.  81, 84, 98. 

Commonwealth Railways Act - By-law No.  88. 

Customs Act - 

Customs Proclamation - No. 764. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 87,94,95, 111, 113. 

Customs Act and Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act - Regulations- Statutory Rules 1949, No. 107. 

Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 93. 

Defence (Transitional Provisions) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 88, 101, 102,116. 

Distillation Act - -Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 97. 

Electoral - Referendums - Statistical Returns in relation to the submission to the electors of a Proposed Law for the alteration of the Constitution, entitled " Constitution Alteration (Rents and Prices) 1947"; together with Summaries of Referendums, . 1906-1948. 

Excise Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 96 (substitute copy). 

Judiciary Act - Rules of Court, dated 21st October, 1949, 21st November, 1949, and 12th December, 1949 (Statutory Rules 1949, No. 122). 

Lands Acquisition Act - Land acquired for - Australian Aluminium Production Com mission purposes- Bell Bay, Tasmania. 

Defence purposes - 

Forest Hill, Wagga Wagga, New South Wales. 

Learmonth, Western Australia. 

Tolga, Queensland. 

Department of Civil Aviation purposes - 

Essendon, Victoria (2). 

Monto, Queensland. 

Tamworth, New South Wales. 

Department of the Interior purposes - 

Carnarvon, Western Australia. 

Ceduna, South Australia. 

Oodnadatta, South Australia. 

Department of Supply and Development   purposes - Fortitude Valley, Queensland. 

Department of Trade and Customs pur poses - Morphett Vale, South Australia. 

Overseas Telecommunications Commission purposes - 

Bringelly, New South Wales. 

Eastern Creek, New South Wales. 

Postal purposes - 

Blackburn, Victoria. 

Brookfield, Queensland. 

Busselton, Western Australia. 

Collaroy Beach, New South Wales. 

Deniliquin, New South Wales. 

Dingley, Victoria. 

Edwardstown, South Australia. 

Ferntree Gully, Victoria. 

Flinders Park, South Australia. 

Gardenvale, Victoria. 

Gundagai, New South Wales. 

Gympie, Queensland. 

Heywood, Victoria. 

Hobart, Tasmania. 

Katoomba, New South Wales. 

Laidley, Queensland. 

Newport Beach, New South Wales. 

Nyngan, New South Wales. 

Orange, New South Wales. 

Paddington, New South Wales. 

Quirindi, New South Wales. 

Seaford, Victoria. 

Sydenham, New South Wales. 

Victor Harbour, South Australia. 

Whyalla, South Australia. 

Wyandra, Queensland. 

Liquid Fuel (Defence Stocks) Act - Regula  tions - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 83. 

Liquid Fuel (Rationing) Act - Regulations -  Statutory Rules 1949, No. 85. 

Meat Export Control Act- Regulations -  Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 109, 117,118. 

National Health Service Act - Regulations -  Statutory Rules 1949, No. 92. 

Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules - 1949, No. 114. 1950, Nos. 3, 4. 

Navigation Act - Regulations - Statutory 

 Rules 1850, No. 2. 

Northern Territory Administration Act - Ordinances - 1949 - . 

No. 8 - Traffic. 

No. 9 - Adoption of Children. 

No. 10 - Places of Public Entertainment. 

No. 11 - Fisheries. 

No. 12 - Apprentices. 

No. 13 - Licensing (No. 2). 

No. 14 - Police Arbitral Tribunal. 

No. 15 - Motor Vehicles. 

No. 16 - Landlord and Tenant (Control  of Rents). 

No. 17 - Prices Regulation, 

No. 18 - Workmen's Compensation (No.  2). 

No. 19 - Weights and Measures. 

No. 20 - Darwin Town Management. 

No. 21 - Buildings and Services. 

Regulations - 1950 - No. 1 (Food and 

Drugs Ordinance). 

Papua and New Guinea Act - 

Ordinances - 

1949- 

No. 7 - Prices Regulation. 

No. 8 - Administration Employees' Compensation. 

No. 9 - Hallstrom Live-stock and Fauna (Papua and New Guinea.) Trust. 

No. 10 - Appropriation1949-50. 

No. 11 - Native Village Councils. 1950 - No. 1 - Matrimonial Causes (Papua). 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949. No. 121. 

Parliamentary Retiring Allowances . Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 99. 

Patents Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940, No. 89. 

Post and Telegraph Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 91, 106. 

Re-establishment and Employment Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, Nos. 103, 104. 

Science and Industry Endowment Act - Report by the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and . Industry Endowment Fund for year 1948-49. 

Science and Industry Research Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1949, No. 105. 

Seat of Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government (Administration) Act - 

Ordinances - 

 1949- 

  >No. 12  -  Prices Regulation. 
  >
  >No. 13  -  Court of Petty Sessions.  1950 - No. 1 - Boarding-houses (Un   claimed Goods). 

War Damage to Property Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1950, No. 1. 

War Service Homes Act- Land acquired at - 

Albury, New South Wales. 

Moorooka, Queensland. 

House adjourned at5.51 p.m. 

