---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1938-10-25
year: 1938
session: 1
page_start: 1037
parliament: 15
file_id: 19381025_reps_15_157
debates:
  - title: "AIR DISASTER"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "MOTION OF WANT OF CONFIDENCE"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [AIR DISASTER](#debate-0)
* [MOTION OF WANT OF CONFIDENCE](#debate-1)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-2)


----


 **Mr. Speaker (Hon. G.** 
 *J.* Bell) took the chair at 3 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1037

{:#debate-0}
### AIR DISASTER

Mr.LYONS (Wilmot- Prime Minister).  *- by leave*  - The Secretary for Defence has sent the following message to the Minister for Defence: - 

  >Advice just received that Douglas D.C.2,  owned  by Australian National Airways, crashed at Mount Dandenong, near Melbourne, in cloudy weather. First Pilot A. C. D. Webb,  Second  Pilot A. Steen. Believed twelve passengers carried  and that  six or seven have been killed. Air' Accidents Investigation Committee proceeding  to  scene, about 25 miles from Melbourne. Further particulars will  be  forwarded immediately received. Names of passengers carried or killed not yet known, nor is it known  whether  the pilots are amongst those killed. 

##### Mr CURTIN:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

--  *by leave*  - I crave indulgence to say that I am quite sure that the whole of the people of Australia will regret this unfortunate occurrence'. 

{: .page-start }
page 1037

{:#debate-1}
### MOTION OF WANT OF CONFIDENCE

##### Mr CURTIN:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

-- I give notice that to-morrow I shall move - 

  >That, because of  its  lamentable lack  of  leadership  in  regard to urgent national problems, the Government has forfeited the confidence of this House. 

{: .page-start }
page 1037

{:#debate-2}
### ADJOURNMENT

##### Mr LYONS:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Wilmot &middot; UAP</small>

-- In view of the character of the. motion of which the honorable the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Curtin)**  has just given notice, I move--- 

  >That the House  do  now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned  at  3.3 p.m. 

