---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1948-09-01
year: 1948
session: 2
page_start: 14
parliament: 18
file_id: 19480901_reps_18_198
debates:
  - title: "PROCLAMATION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: proclamations
    subdebates:
  - title: "ABSENCE OF MR. SPEAKER"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "OPENING OF THE SESSION"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1948"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "DEPUTY SPEAKER"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "HOUR OF MEETING"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [PROCLAMATION](#debate-0)
* [ABSENCE OF MR. SPEAKER](#debate-1)
* [OPENING OF THE SESSION](#debate-2)
* [ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1948](#debate-3)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-4)
* [DEPUTY SPEAKER](#debate-5)
* [DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES](#debate-6)
* [HOUR OF MEETING](#debate-7)
* [PAPERS](#debate-8)


----

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-0}
### PROCLAMATION

The House met at 3 p.m., pursuant to the proclamationof His Excellency the Governor-General. 

TheClerk read the proclamation. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-1}
### ABSENCE OF MR. SPEAKER

TheClerk.  -  In the unavoidable absence of  **Mr. Speaker (Hon. J. S. Rosevear)**  the  Chairman  of Committees will, under Standing Order 22, take the Chair as  Deputy Speaker. 


 **Mr. Deputyspeaker (Mr. J. J. Clark)** thereupon took the chair, and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-2}
### OPENING OF THE SESSION

The Usher of the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered the message that  His Excellency  the Governor-General desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 

Mr.Deputyspeaker and honorable members attended accordingly, and having returned, 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-3}
### ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1948

Motion (by  **Mr. Chifley)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be gives to bring in a bill for an act  to  amend  the  Acts Interpretation Act 1901- 1947. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-4}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

Address-in-Reply . 

##### Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Clark:<br><small class="text-muted">DARLING, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

--  I have to report that the House this day attended His Excellency the Governor-General in the Senate chamber, where His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of the Parliament, of which I have obtained a copy (vide page 5). 

Motion (by  **Mr. Chifley)**  agreed to - 

  >That a committee, consisting of  **Mr. Thompson,Mr.O'Connor,**  and the mover, be appointed to prepare an Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  His Excellency  the 
  >
  >Governor-General to both Houses ofthe Parliament, and that the committee do report at the next sitting. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-5}
### DEPUTY SPEAKER

Motion (by Mr.Chifley)-by  *leave -*  agreed to - 

  >That the  Chairman  of Committees shall, on each sitting day, during the absence of the  Speaker,  take the Chair as  Deputy Speaker,  and may, during such absence, perform the duties and exercise the authority of the  Speaker  in relation to all proceedings of the House and to proceedings of Standing Committees and Joint Statutory Committees to which the  Speaker  is Appointed. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-6}
### DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES

Motion (byMr.Chifley)  *- by leave -*  agreed to - 

  >That during the absence of the  Speaker,  the honorable member for Perth  **(Mr. Burke)**  be appointed  Deputy Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

{: .page-start }
page 14

{:#debate-7}
### HOUR OF MEETING

Motion (byMr.Chifley) proposed - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to to-morrow, at 2.30 p.m. 

##### Mr HARRISON:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Leader of the Opposition &middot; Wentworth</small>

.- I should like the Prime Minister  **(Mr, Chifley)**  to give to the House some indication of the business which he proposes to introduce. We are concerned about current reports that the Government proposes to ask the House to sit on four days a week from now on. The Opposition is in complete accord with that proposal provided the sittings are not unduly lengthened by indulgence in unnecessary debate. In fairness, the Prime Minister should at this juncture give to the House some indication of the nature of the business which he proposes to introduce so that the Opposition may be able to assess its national value . 

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Treasurer &middot; Macquarie &middot; ALP</small>

--  *in reply*  - Any proposal which will eliminate unnecessary debate will have my full support. At least the Opposition and myself are unanimous on that point. As I have indicated personally to the Acting Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Harrison),**  it is proposed that the Address-in-Reply debate shall be proceeded with to-morrow. I understand  that many honorable members desire to speak on a wide range of subjects. The Address-in-Reply debate will provide them with the opportunity to satisfy that desire. I have told the Acting Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country party  **(Mr. Fadden)**  that I shall ask the House to suspend the Standing Orders, probably next Wednesday, to enable me to bring down the budget and some of the associated measures. The objective in proceeding with a four-day programme is to pass necessary administrative measures as soon as possible to enable the machinery of government to be kept moving. One cannot judge how long honorable members will require to debate various matters, but they will be asked to consider many bills, not only those originating in this chamber, but also those originating in the Senate, for the opportunity will be taken to introduce in that chamber measures that may be initiated there. I shall ascertain from the Acting Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country party the days on which they desire to hold party meetings to consider various bills. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 15

{:#debate-8}
### PAPERS

The following papers were pre sented : - 

Air Force Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 67, 86. 

Air Navigation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 69. 

Arbitration (Public Service) Act - Determinations by the Arbitrator, &amp;c.  -  1948 - 

No. 37  -  Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No. 38  -  Commonwealth Telephone Officers' Association. 

No. 39  -  Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners of Australia. 

No. 40  -  Postal Telecommunication Technicians' Association (Australia). 

No. 41  -  Amalgamated Engineering Union. 

Nos. 42-44  -  Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union of Australia. 

No. 45  -  Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No. 46  -  Non-Official Postmasters' Association. 

Nos. 47 and 48  -  Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 

Nos. 49 and 50  -  Fourth Division Postmasters, Postal Clerks and Telegraphists' Union. 

Nos. 51 and 52  -  Hospital Employees' Federation of Australasia. 

No. 53  -  Professional Radio Employees' Institute of Australasia. 

No. 54  -  Postal Telecommunication Technicians' Association (Australia) and others. 

No. 55  -  Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 56  -  Vehicle Builders Employees' Federation of Australia. 

Nos. 57 and 58  -  Commonwealth Public Service Artisans' Association. 

No. 59  -  Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia. 

No. 60  -  Association of Railway Professional Officers of Australia. 

No.61 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 80. 

Beer Excise Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 104. 

Census and Statistics Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 106. 

Coal Industry Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 72. 

Commonwealth Bank Act - Appointments - J. M. Copes, H. G. Hurst, W. R. Juster. 

Commonwealth Public Service Act - Appointments - Department - 

Attorney-General - R. A. Givens, C. S. Morrison, D. T. Okey. 

Civil Aviation - P. J. S. Barwise, J. L. Davis, W. H. Flynn, G. V. L. Hillier, H. H. Houghton, R. Kingsland, H. A. Lee, D. R. McDonald, K. A. McLaughlan, R. T. Rye, B. E. Woodrow. 

Commerce and Agriculture - R. G. H. Biddle, D. S. Jones, E. A. Saxon. 

Health - H. M. Carey, I. A. Hansen, D. J. Lee, C. J. N. Leleu, A. M. McArthur, J. L. Wallace, I. T. White. 

Interior - G. E. Ballam, J. D. Lines, E. Norsa. 

Labour and National Service - F. P. Carozzi, J. R. Coghlan, G. Fitzgerald, W. J. Geraghty, J. E. McCleery, A. W. Miles, H. P. S. Moore. 

Parliamentary Library - C. J. Ashman,  K.  N. J. Bernie, M. Freiberg, H. M. Holgate, H. Knight. 

Repatriation - M. E. Lahey, E. Stobo. 

Supply and Development - W. T. Crocker, W. A. Wagschall. 

Transport- F. R. Barr, R. D. Marginson, D. O. Muller, J. H.Reeves. 

Treasury - E. Edgell. 

Works and Housing - J. N. Burns, R. W. 

Ford, E. C. Francis, R. L. George, A. W. Harrison, F. K. Manderson. R. W. McKay, F. J. Richardson. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 68, 71, 97. 

Customs Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 105. 

Customs Act and Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 78, 102. 

Dairying Industry Assistance Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 85. 

Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 79, 94. 

Defence Act and Naval Defence Act - RegulationsStatutory Rules 1948, No. 89. 

Defence (Transitional Provisions) Act - 

National Security (Economic Organization ) Regulations- Orders- Exemption (2). 

National Security (Enemy Property) Regulations - Orders - Areas ceasing to be enemy territory or persons ceasing to be enemy subjects (2). 

National Security (Industrial Property) Regulations - Orders - Inventions and designs (104). 

National Security (Landlord and Tenant) Regulations-Orders- Cessation of regulations (6). 

National Security (Maritime Industry) Regulations - Order - No.65. 

National Security (Minerals) Regulations - Order - Lead. 

National Security (Prices) Regulations - Orders- Nos. 3326-3332, 3334-3365, 3367-3372. 

National Security (Rationing) Regulations Orders - Nos.154-156. 

Orders - 

Agricultural machinery (No. 1) - Revocation. 

Control of tinplate (Nos. 4, 5). 

Shirts, collars and pyjamas - Revocation. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 

75, 76, 84, 98, 107, 108. 

Distillation Act- Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 96. 

Egg Export Control Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 93. 

Excise Act - Regulations- Statutory Rules 1948, No. 95. 

Hospital Benefits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 70. 

Interim Forces Benefits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 82. 

Lands Acquisition Act - Land acquired for - 

Banking purposes - Bordertown, South Australia. 

Commonwealth office accommodation purposes - Melbourne, Victoria. 

Defence purposes - 

Ardath, Western Australia. 

Beaumont, South Australia. 

Broadmeadows, Victoria. 

Hughenden, Queensland. 

Linden Park, South Australia. 

Moorooka, Queensland. 

Strathpine, Queensland. 

Department of Civil Aviation purposes - 

Bankstown, New South Wales. 

Devonport, Tasmania. 

Dubbo, New South Wales. 

Eagle Farm, Queensland. 

Mascot, New South Wales. 

Onslow, Western Australia. 

Port Hedland, Western Australia. 

Sale, Victoria. 

Departments of Civil Aviation and the Interior purposes- Charleville, Queensland. 

Departmentof Health purposes- Campbellfield, Victoria. 

Department of the Interior purposes- 

Broome, Western Australia. 

Cloncurry, Queensland. 

Department of Post-war Reconstruction purposes - Mayne, Queensland. 

Department of Social Services purposes- Clovelly, New South Wales. 

Department of Supply and Development purposes - Karrakatta, WesternAustralia. 

Department of Trade and Customs purposesGriffith, New South Wales. 

Overseas Telecommunications Commission purposes - Broome, Western Australia. 

Postal purposes - 

Adelaide, South Australia. 

Ardath, Western Australia. 

Bentleigh, Victoria. 

Capalaba, Queensland. 

Cootamundra, New South Wales. 

Cowell, South Australia. 

Donald, Victoria, 

East Fremantle, Western Australia. 

Fortitude Valley, Queensland. 

Hamley Bridge, South Australia. 

Heidelberg, Victoria. 

Malanda, Queensland. 

Midland Junction, Western Australia. 

Oberon, New South Wales. 

Perth, Western Australia (2). 

Port Lincoln, South Australia. 

Richmond North, Victoria. 

Rose Bay, New South Wales. 

Saddleworth, South Australia. 

Snowtown, South Australia. 

St. Mary's, New South Wales. 

Traralgon, Victoria. 

Trundle, New South Wales. 

Warwick, Queensland. 

Yarram, Victoria. 

Lands Acquisition Act and Lands Acquisi tion Ordinance of the Northern Territory - Land acquired for Department of the Interior purposes - Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 

Meat Export Control Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 100. 

Nationality Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 77. 

Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 87, 88. 

Northern Territory Acceptance Act and Northern Territory (Administration) Act - 

Crown Lands Ordinance - Reasons for resumption of reservation of certain lands near Alice Springs (Racecourse Reserve ) . 

Regulations - 1 948 - 

No. 3 (Darwin Administration Ordinance) . 

No. 4 (Brands Ordinance). 

Papua and New Guinea Bounties Act - 

Return for year 1947-48. 

Papua-New Guinea Provisional Administration Act - Ordinance - 1948 - No. 6 - Supply (No. 1) 1948-49. 

Quarantine Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 91, 92. 

Raw Cotton Bounty Act - Return for 1947. 

Re-establisliment and Employment ActRegulations - Statutory Rules 1948, Nos. 73,74, 81. 

Seatof Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government ( Administration ) Act - Canberra University College-Report for 1947. 

Sulphur Bounty Act - Return for year 1947-48. 

Supply and Development Act - Regulations -Statutory Rules 1948, No. 90. 

Tractor Bounty Act - Return for year 1947-48. 

Trade Commissioners Act - RegulationsStatutory Rules 1948, No. 101. 

War Gratuity Act- Regulations - Statutory Rules 1948, No. 66. 

War Service Homes Act - Land acquired at - 

Miranda, New South Wales. 

Reservoir, Victoria. 

Wine Export Bounty Act - Return for year 

1947-48. 

Wire Netting BountyAct - Return for year 1947-48. 

Wool (Contributory Charge) Act - RegulationsStatutory Rules 1948, No. 83. 

WoolUse Promotion Act- RegulationsStatutory Rules 1948, No. 103. 

House adjourned at 3.45 p.m. 

