---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1929-08-14
year: 1929
session: 1
page_start: 6
parliament: 11
file_id: 19290814_reps_11_121
debates:
  - title: "NEW MEMBER"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ASSENT TO BILLS"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "WITHDRAWAL OF PROSECUTION"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
---

* [NEW MEMBER](#debate-0)
* [ASSENT TO BILLS](#debate-1)
* [WITHDRAWAL OF PROSECUTION](#debate-2)


----


 **Mr. Speaker** (Sob.  **Sir Littleton**  Groom) took the chair at 3 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 6

{:#debate-0}
### NEW MEMBER

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to inform the House that, during the adjournment, I received from the Right Honorable W. A. Watt a letter dated the 5th July, 1929, resigning his seat as member for the electoral division of Balaclava, in the State of Victoria, and that on the 11th July I issued a writ for the election of a member to serve for the said electoral division. I have received a return to that writ, and, by the endorsement thereon, it appears that Thomas Walter White has been elected. 


 **Mr. White** made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 

{: .page-start }
page 6

{:#debate-1}
### ASSENT TO BILLS

Assent to the following  bills  reported- 

Wine Overseas Marketing Bill, 1929. 

Wine Grapes Charges Bill, 1929. 

Supply Bill (No. 1) 1929-30. 

Economic Research Bill, 1929. 

Seat of Government Acceptance Bill, 1929. 

Income Tax Assessment Bill, 1929. 

Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, 1929. 

War Service Homes Bill, 1929. 

Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Bill, 1929. 

Dairy Produce Export Charges Bill, 1929. 

Canned Fruits Export Charges Bill, 1929. 

National Debt Sinking Fund Bill, 1929. 

THE LATE HON. J. H. McCOLL. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have received from the widow of the late Honorable James Hiers McColl a letter thanking the House for its resolution of sympathy. 

{: .page-start }
page 6

{:#debate-2}
### WITHDRAWAL OF PROSECUTION

Motion of Want of Confidence. 

##### Mr THEODORE:<br><small class="text-muted">DALLEY, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

-- I give notice that to-morrow I shall move - 

  >That, by its withdrawal of the lockout prosecution against the wealthy colliery proprietor, John Brown, after its vigorous prosecutions of trade unionists, the Government has shown that in the administration of the law it unjustly discriminates between the rich and the poor; and that as a consequence the Government has forfeited the confidence of this House. 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for External Affairs &middot; FLINDERS, VICTORIA &middot; NAT</small>

-- The Deputy Leader of the Opposition having given notice of a direct motion of want of confidence in the Government I, in accordance with parliamentary practice, move - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned  at  8.8 p.m. 

