---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1954-02-15
year: 1954
session: 3
page_start: 5
parliament: 20
file_id: 19540215_reps_20_hor3
debates:
  - title: "PROCLAMATION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: proclamations
    subdebates:
  - title: "GWYDIR ELECTORAL DIVISION"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Return to Writ - Mr. Archibald Ian Allan Sworn"
        id: "#subdebate-1-0"
  - title: "OPENING OF THE SESSION"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1954"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "FLAGS BILL 1953"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "SPEECH OF HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "TARIFF PROPOSALS 1954"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 2) ; Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Amendment (No. 1)"
        id: "#subdebate-6-0"
      - title: "In Committee of Ways and Means:"
        id: "#subdebate-6-2"
  - title: "TARIFF BOARD"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Thermostats"
        id: "#subdebate-7-0"
  - title: "SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: special adjournment
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [PROCLAMATION](#debate-0)
* [GWYDIR ELECTORAL DIVISION](#debate-1)
    * [Return to Writ - Mr. Archibald Ian Allan Sworn](#subdebate-1-0)
* [OPENING OF THE SESSION](#debate-2)
* [ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1954](#debate-3)
* [FLAGS BILL 1953](#debate-4)
* [SPEECH OF HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN](#debate-5)
* [TARIFF PROPOSALS 1954](#debate-6)
    * [Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 2) ; Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Amendment (No. 1)](#subdebate-6-0)
    * [In Committee of Ways and Means:](#subdebate-6-2)
* [TARIFF BOARD](#debate-7)
    * [Thermostats](#subdebate-7-0)
* [SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT](#debate-8)
* [LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS](#debate-9)
* [PAPERS](#debate-10)


----

{: .page-start }
page 5

{:#debate-0}
### PROCLAMATION

The House met at 2.30 p.m., pursuant to the proclamation of His Excellency the Governor-General. 

The  Clerk  read the proclamation. 


 **Mr. Speaker (Hon. Archie Cameron)** took the chair, and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 5

{:#debate-1}
### GWYDIR ELECTORAL DIVISION

{:#subdebate-1-0}
#### Return to Writ - Mr. Archibald Ian Allan Sworn

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to announce that I have received a notification from the Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth in connexion with the writ which I issued on the 24th November, 1953, for the election of a member to serve for the electoral division of Gwydir, in the State of New South Wales, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of  **Mr, Thomas**  John Treloar, and that, by the notification, it appears that Archibald Ian Allan has been elected in pursuance of the said writ. 


 **Mr. Allan** made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 

{: .page-start }
page 5

{:#debate-2}
### OPENING OF THE SESSION

The Usher of the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered the message that  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 


 **Mr. Speaker** and honorable members attended accordingly, and having returned, 

{: .page-start }
page 5

{:#debate-3}
### ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1954

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be given  *to*  bring in a bill for an actto amend the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1950. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 


 *Sitting suspended from 2.54 to 5 p.m.* 


{: .page-start }
page 5

{:#debate-4}
### FLAGS BILL 1953

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have received from the Governor-General a message informing the House of Representatives that the proposed law intituled the Flags Bill 1953, which was reserved for Her Majesty's pleasure, has been laid before Her Majesty and that, on the 14th February, Her Majesty was graciously pleased to assent to the said law. 

{: .page-start }
page 6

{:#debate-5}
### SPEECH OF HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-(Hon. Archie Cameron). - I have to report that the House this day attended Her Majesty the Queen in the Senate chamber, where Her Majesty was pleased to make a speech to both Houses of the Parliament, of which I have received a copy. As honorable members have copies of the Speech, I shall not formally read it to the House. It will be included in  *Hansard*  for record purposes. 


 *The Speech read as follows: -* 


  >MEMBERS of the Senate and Members of the House of Representatives: 
  >
  >The first section of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia provides that the legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in "a Federal Parliament, which shall consist of the Queen, a Senate, and a House of Representatives '". ft is therefore a joy for mc, to-day, to address you not as a Queen from far away, hut as your Queen and a part of your Parliament. In a real sense, you are here as my colleagues, friends, and advisers. 
  >
  >When I add to this consideration the fact that I am tin? first ruling? Sovereign to visit Australia, it is clear that the events of todaymake a piece of history which fills me with deep pride and the most heartfelt pleasure, and which I am confident will serve to strengthen in your own hearts and minds a feeling of comradeship with the Crown and that sense of duty shared which wc must all have as we confront our common tasks. f am proud also, speaking as the granddaughter of King George V. and the daughter of King George VI., to recall two earlier events in the history, the short history, of the Commonwealth of Australia. The first was . the opening of the First Parliament of the new Commonwealth of Australia in 1001 by my grandfather, then the Duke of Cornwall and York. The second was the opening of this building in 1927 by my father, then the Duke of York. Thus the history of Australia as a nation has a special family significance for me. lt is, I think, fitting that I should, speaking to you to-day. recall to mind those clements of unity which combine in the fabric of the British Commonwealth. The great institutions of Parliamentary sovereignty, a democratically controlled Executive, the just and impartial administration of the law; these exist and flourish in each of the great realms which call me Queen. They have, in this century, survived great trials of war and economic hardship. And they have done so, I am proud to say, because of the great qualities of my peoples, qualities which have shown themselves through labours manfully performed, duties courageously done by men and women, sorrows sustained, and happiness earned. 
  >
  >In the result, as I acknowledge the wonderful welcome of my Australian people, I do so in a country whose growth and progress are manifest, a country of freedom, eloquent of that true democracy which dignifies and expresses the individual human being. 
  >
  >Already, in my journeys through the Commonwealth, I have been made even more vividly conscious of the true brotherhood of my peoples, even prouder of their services to civilization, and more richly confident of their future destiny. 
  >
  >I would like also to take this opportunity to say to my Australian people, through you ladies and gentlemen of the Australian Parliament, how grateful I was, and am, for their loyal support and encouragement on the occasion of my Coronation. My husband and T can never forget your affection on that great day, an affection which you have expressed with such marvellous warmth in your own land since our arrival. 
  >
  >Moved by these feelings, it is my resolve that, under God, I shall not only rule, but serve. This is not only the tradition of my family; it describes, I believe, the modern character of the British Crown. 
  >
  >In this uneasy world of conflicts open or hidden, my peoples in Australia and throughout the British Commonwealth want peace in its fullest and richest sense; that peace, based upon freedom and justice, which must some day be the unquestioned inheritance of nil mankind. 
  >
  >To play their part in the achievement and preservation of peace, my Australian Ministers will continue the closest co-operation with my Governments in the other Commonwealth nations. Only last month my Finance Ministers conferred in Sydney with the frankness and friendliness which always mark discussions between the Commonwealth countries. This was one of a long and continuing series of such conferences. Their immediate objective is to strengthen the British Commonwealth; but their ultimate benefit will flow to other nations and to the great world community of people everywhere. 
  >
  >Pursuant to the terms of the Constitution,  *a*  general election for the House of Representatives must be held at the end of this Session of Parliament. My Ministers will submit to Parliament the financial and other measures which must precede that election. 
  >
  >
 **Mr. President,** and Members of the Senate. 
  >
  >
 **Mr. Speaker,** and Members of the House of Representatives. 
  >
  >In the earnest hope that Divine Providence may guide your deliberations and further the welfare of the people of the Commonwealth of Australia, I now leave you to the discharge of your high and important duties. 

AddressinReply. 

Motion (by Mb. Menzies) agreed to - 

  >That a Committee consisting of the Right 
  >
  >Honorable the Leader of the Opposition  **(Dr.** 
  >
  >Evatt! and the Mover be appointed to prepare  *an*  Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen to both Houses of the Parliament, mid that the Committee do report, litis day. 


 **Mr. Menzies,** for the committee appointed to prepare an Address-in-Reply  to  the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen, presented the proposed Address, which was read by the  Clerk. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

 5.3]. - I move - 

  >That the following Address-in-Reply to the speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen be agreed lu: - 
  >
  >Most  Gracious  SOVEREIGN 
  >
  >We, Your Majesty's loyal subjects, the Members of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to thank Your Majesty for l lie gracious speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament on this, your first visit to our country. The presence in Australia of Your Majesty and of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh has brought unbounded pleasure to the Australian people. We, their representatives in this House, invoke (iw.l I's choicest blessing upon your life and reign and  are grateful for this opportunity to  reaffirm  our loyalty and devotion to the Crown  and Person  of Your Majesty.  t  do  not propose to make a long speech. This is the Queen's day and I shall trespass on it as briefly as possible, but I think one or two things ought to be said. Of all those who have sat in the Parlia  ment of  the Australian nation, we who are  here  now have attained the most unique privilege. For the first time in our history our sovereign is with us in person. For the first time in our history our sovereign has come to her Australian Parliament. 

In the Speech which she addressed to us  this  afternoon, Her Majesty reminded us  That,  under the very terms of our Constitution, she  is  a part of the Parliament of  the  Commonwealth of Australia, and I  arn  sure that, with this very happy reminder still in our ears, we all appreciate that our Parliament has now found its full and complete expression. The Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives have met to-day, not only according to the printed word of our Constitution, but also in a rich, magnificent and human way. 

The Address-in-Reply is, in normal practice, the signal for political debate. To-day, it is the signal for the greatest, most moving and enduring unanimity that this Parliament has ever seen. By our Address, we recognize our homage and the duty of our allegiance, but we desire to express much more than that - our love, our pride and our thankfulness to God that, whatever troubles may beset the world, and however man may be set against man in unhappy parts of the world, we of the great British family are privileged to live in unity under a young and lovely Queen, a great Queen to-day hut one who is bound to be greater and greater as the years move on. 

She lias, [ believe, helped us to understand more perfectly that humility and pride can co-exist, and that under a Queen like her, subjecthood is no mark of inferiority but is in itself a title of honour. Whatever party wo belong to in this place and however violently we may differ a bout policy or administration, we are to-day, on this unforgettable occasion, all the Queen's men. proud to be the members of her Parliament, and determined so to order our affairs and discharge our responsibilities that our Queen, of whom we are so proud, will always, in her turn, he proud of us. 

Br.  EVATT  (Barton- Leader of the Opposition) 5.7". - On behalf of Her Majesty's Opposition, I second the motion. This is indeed a unique occasion. The Sovereign herself has opened the Parliament. It was thought at one time that that was constitutionally impossible, but this Parliament unanimously passed a special measure to enable it to be done  :hh1  also to enable all other functions of the Governor-General to be performed by Her Majesty during the period of her Royal visit. But, that, important though it is, is merely the constitutional aspect. The supremely important aspect of today's proceedings is not the Speech nor what it contains, but the fact that Her Majesty has made it. At last, the Queen has been with  hp  in the Parliament and has addressed us as  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia. 

Her direct participation in the constitutional processes of this National Parliament must recall, as indeed the Speech does, the close association of the Royal Family with Australia. That personal link is greatly valued by all the people of this country, especially by those who served in the great wars. Most, of  us remember vividly the visit to Australia by the Queen's parents during the early part of their married life. It is implicit in what the Queen herself has said and it is true to say that the memory of the Queen's father, King George VI., is revered by the people of Australia. His name will go down in history as that of a Sovereign who, during the most critical period of the history of the British nation and perhaps of the world, inspired the British and allied peoples by his long sustained fortitude and courage and by his wise and effective contribution to leadership. As yet, too little is known of his calm and helpful counsel during some of the great emergencies that confronted the leaders of Great Britain and Australia during the last world war. 

May I also pay tribute to the great national service rendered to Australia by the Queen's mother. The value of what she did, even more, what she was, both during the King's reign and since, will never be forgotten. She and King George were eagerly looking forward to visiting Australia again, until the King's illness made that impossible. I express the hope that the Queen Mother will be able to re-visit us at no distant date. With these illustrious examples before her, Queen Elizabeth's self-dedication in her Coronation broadcast expressed in felicitous terms the new conception of the democratic British monarchy, and of the special link that binds the Sovereign to her people.  Her  Majesty said - - 

  >I have in sincerity pledged myself to your service as so many of you are pledged to mine. Throughout all my life, and with all my heart, I shall strive to be worthy of your trust. In this resolve I have my husband to support me. He shares all my ideals and all my affection for you. 

The simplicity, nay, the ennobling grandeur, of this solemn declaration of royal trusteeship, in which we find a solemn declaration of the new function of the Crown, uplifted the hearts of all; not only those in Australia, Great Britain and throughout the British Commonwealth, but also those in lands remote - in countries extending far beyond the confines of the British Commonwealth. To-day, therefore, we do right to join together to pay tribute to our Sovereign. She has more than fulfilled the most ardent expectations of her people. With her young children so far away, the inevitable strain of the royal visit is increased, but that is why the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh are finding special joy and comfort in the spontaneous welcome that they are receiving everywhere, especially from the children of Australia. That rapturous welcome would never be given to a stranger, however powerful or illustrious he or she may be. It goes to the Queen from the hearts of all and transcends all local differences and disputes. It shows again that there are things that unite the people, and that they are more important than the things that divide them. 

The reign of the young Queen is still in its very early stages, but already men and women everywhere look forward to a new era of peace and justice throughout the world. The extension and application of scientific knowledge is now covering a field that is almost infinite in area. The question is whether these miraculous developments of science can be harnessed and directed to serve the welfare of human kind everywhere. The answer to the question depends mainly upon the resolve of the young men and women of this nation and others, and it is to this younger generation that Her Majesty and her husband belong. The prize that could be won by this young generation is no less than a new way of life where order, decency, kindness and compassion' will be the guiding rule of all nations, and from which there will be banished tyranny, cruelty and the spectres of war and want. If that prize could be won there would be another, and a far greater, Elizabethan era. 

Every member of this Parliament is privileged to acclaim  Her  Majesty's presence here to-day. It is something we shall never forget. It is quite wrong, as the Prime Minister has properly stressed, to regard the visit to the Parliament of  Her  Majesty as being only ceremonial or formal. It is both, of course, but, in addition, it is also just as personal as the returning home of a loved member of a family. So our prayer to-day is for the happiness of  Her  Majesty and her husband. The prayer is simple and, I think, is best expressed in one of the verses of the National Anthem which I heard sung very beautifully in Sydney at one of the wonderful children's demonstrations in honour of the Queen only a few days ago. I shall conclude my remarks by reading that verse. It is- 

  >Thy choicest gifts in store, 
  >
  >On her bo pleased to pour, 
  >
  >Long may she reign. 
  >
  >May she defend our laws, 
  >
  >And ever give us cause 
  >
  >To sing with heart and voice, 
  >
  >God save the Queen. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

Presentation of Address-in-Reply. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:


 **-(Hon.** Archie Cameron). - I have ascertained that  Her  Majesty will be graciously pleased to receive the Address-in-Reply at Government House at ten minutes past five o'clock to-morrow afternoon. I shall be glad if the mover and the seconder, together with other honorable members as arranged, will accompany me to Government House. 

{: .page-start }
page 9

{:#debate-6}
### TARIFF PROPOSALS 1954

{:#subdebate-6-0}
#### Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 2) ; Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Amendment (No. 1) ; Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Amendment (No. 1)

{:#subdebate-6-1}
#### In Committee of Ways and Means:

##### Mr ERIC J HARRISON:<br><small class="text-muted">Vice-President of the Executive Council and Minister for Defence Production &middot; WENTWORTH, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; UAP; LP from 1944</small>

-- I move - [Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 1).] 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. That the Schedule to the Customs Tariff 1933-1953 be amended as hereinafter set out, and that on and after the sixteenth day of February, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four, at nine o'clock in the forenoon, reckoned according to standard time in the Australian Capital Territory, Duties of Customs be collected in pursuance of the Customs Tariff 1933-1953 as so amended. 
1. That, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1 of these Proposals, the Governor-General may, from time to time by Proclamation declare that, from a time and date specified in the Proclamation, the Intermediate Tariff shall apply to such goods specified in the Proclamation as are the produce or manufacture of any British or foreign country specified in the Proclamation. 
2. That on and after the time and date specified in a Proclamation issued in accordance with the last preceding paragraph, the Intermediate Tariff shall apply to such goods specified in the Proclamation as are the produce or manufacture of a British or foreign country specified in that Proclamation. 
3. That any Proclamation issued in accordance with paragraph 2 of these Proposals may, from time to time, be revoked or varied by a further Proclamation, and upon the revocation or variation of the Proclamation, the Intermediate Tariff shall cease to apply to the goods specified in the Proclamation so revoked, or, as the case may be, the application of the Intermediate Tariff to the goods specified in the Proclamation so varied, shall be varied accordingly. 
4. That in these Proposals, unless the contrary intention appears - " Proclamation " mean a Proclamation by the Governor-General, or the person for the time being administering the government of the Commonwealth, acting with the advice of the Federal Executive Council, and published in the  *Commonwealth of Australia Gazette ;*  " the Intermediate Tariff " mean the rates of duty set out in the Schedule to these Proposals, in the column headed " Intermediate Tariff ", in respect of goods in relation to which the expression is used. 


<graphic href="003131195402156_4_0.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_5_1.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_6_0.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_7_0.jpg"></graphic>


[Customs Tariff Amendment (No. 2.)] 

{: type="1" start="1"}
0. That theSchedule to the Customs Tariff 1933-1953 be amended as hereinafter set out, and that, on and after the sixteenth day of February, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four, at nine o'clock in the forenoon, reckoned according to standard time in the Australian Capital Territory, Duties of Customs be collected in pursuance of the Customs Tariff 1933-1953 as so amended. 
1. That, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1 of these Proposals, the Governor-General may, from time to time by Proclamation declare that, from a time and date specified in the Proclamation, the Intermediate Tariff shall apply to such goods specified in the Proclamation as are the produce or manufacture of any British or foreign country specified in the Proclamation. 
2. That on and after the time and date specified in a Proclamation issued in accordance with the last preceding paragraph, the Intermediate Tariff shall apply to such goods specified in the Proclamation as are the produce or manufacture of a British or foreign country specified in that Proclamation. 
3. That any Proclamation issued in accordance with paragraph 2 of these Proposals may, from time to time, be revoked or varied by a further Proclamation, and upon the revocation or variation of the Proclamation, the Intermediate Tariff shall cease to apply to the goods specified in the Proclamation so revoked, or, as the case may be, the application of the Intermediate Tariff to the goods specified in the Proclamation so varied,' shall be varied accordingly. 
4. That in these Proposals, unless the contrary intention appears - " Proclamation " mean a Proclamation by the Governor-General, or the person for the time being administering the government of the Commonwealth, acting with the advice of the Federal Executive Council, and published in the  *Commonwealth of Australia Gazette ;*  "the Intermediate Tariff" mean the rates of duty set out in the Schedule to these Proposals, in the column headed " Intermediate Tariff ", in respect of goods in relation to which the expression is used. 


<graphic href="003131195402156_7_1.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_8_0.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_9_6.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_10_7.jpg"></graphic>


<para pgwide="yes">[Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Amendment (No. 1).] 

<para pgwide="yes">That the Schedule to the Customs Tar ff (Canadian Preference) 1934-1952 be amended as hereinafter set, out, and that, on and after the sixteenth day of February, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four, at nine o'clock in the forenoon, reckoned according to standard time in the Australian Capital Territory, Unties of Customs bo collected in pursuance of the Cu.-toui.-i Tariff (Canadian Preference) 1934-1952 as so amended. 


<graphic href="003131195402156_10_8.jpg"></graphic>



<graphic href="003131195402156_11_0.jpg"></graphic>


The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just introduced cover amendments to- 

{: type="a" start="a"}
0. the Customs Tariff 1933-1953; 
1. the Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) 1934-1952; and 
2. the Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) 1933- 

1953. 

These proposed amendments are, in the main, based upon recommendations made by the Tariff Board in comparatively recent reports. I shall, at a later stage, take the opportunity to table the relevant Tariff Board reports. The new duties will operate as from 9 a.m. to-morrow morning. A " Summary of Alterations ", which has been circulated to honorable members, sets out in concise form the proposed variations. 

The major changes relate to cotton sheetings, paper and paper products, and motor vehicle gear box assemblies and differential assemblies and parts thereof. Other proposed amendments relate to pillow cases and sheets, metal working lathes, inserted type machine tools, tool tips composed of cemented carbides, files and rasps, thermostats, hypodermic needles and bequeathed articles. 

The Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Proposals and the Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Proposals are complementary to the variations made by Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 1 and 2. It is proposed that the duties on cotton sheetings of the type ordinarily used in the manufacture of bed sheets and pillow cases be increased to 4d. per lb. plus 15 per cent, ad valorem when admissible under the British preferential tariff. The "mostfavourednation tariff " rates have been varied to rates ranging from 5d. to81/2d. per lb., plus 15 per cent, ad valorem, according to whether the sheeting is in an unbleached, bleached, dyed or coloured condition. This action is based on the findings of the Tariff Board, which conducted a comprehensive inquiry into the protective needs of the Australian industry. The value of this industry in the overall economy of the Commonwealth will, I feel sure, be readily appreciated by honorable members. 

The fixed rate duties on wrapping papers and paper boards have been increased consequent upon adoption by the Government of recommendations by the Tariff Board. The Australian industry has, for some time past, been experiencing difficulty in competing with overseas suppliers principally because the existing fixed rate duties, which are based on pre-war values, have lost much of their protective incidence and also because of a substantial fall in overseas selling prices. The proposed duties will be again reviewed by the Tariff Board in two years' time. 

It is proposed to increase the duties on motor vehicle transmission gear box assemblies, differential assemblies, driving axle assemblies, and parts of such assemblies, irrespective of whether the assemblies and parts are imported separately or otherwise. This will not, however, apply to the assemblies and parts imported with or for use with tractors. This action is also consequent upon the adoption by the Government of recommendations of the Tariff Board. The Tariff Board has also recommended that increased protection be accorded on hypodermic needles and on thermostats of the type ordinarily used with electrically operated domestic appliances. The proposals before the committee give effect to those recommendations. An opportunity will be provided, at a later stage, for honorable members to debate these proposals. 

Progress reported. 

{: .page-start }
page 17

{:#debate-7}
### TARIFF BOARD

Reports on Items. 

##### Mr ERIC J HARRISON:<br><small class="text-muted">WENTWORTH, NEW SOUTH WALES &middot; UAP; LP from 1944</small>

-- I lay on the table reports of the Tariff Board on the f ollowing items :  - 

  >Hypodermic needles. 
  >
  >Camera filters. 

{:#subdebate-7-0}
#### Thermostats

Gear box differential and rear axle assemblies and parts therefor. 

Riper and paper products. 

Flooring and wall tiles. 

Cotton sheetings, sheets and pillow cases. 

At present, copies of the three firstmentioned reports only are available for circulation to honorable members- 

{: .page-start }
page 18

{:#debate-8}
### SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong - Prime 

Minister) ["5.24]. - I move - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to a date and hour to be fixed by  **Mr. Speaker,**  which time of meeting shall be notified by  **Mr. Speaker**  to each member by telegram or letter. 

It may be of assistance to honorable members if I inform them that the Government has in mind a re-assembly of the House on or aboutthe 6th April, which I think will be the first convenient date for the resumption of our deliberations. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 18

{:#debate-9}
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave of absence be granted to every member of the House of Representatives from the determination of this sitting of the House to the date of its next meeting. 

{: .page-start }
page 18

{:#debate-10}
### PAPERS

The following papers were pre sented :  - 

  >Aluminium Industy Act - Australian Aluminium production Commission - Eighth Annual Report and Financial Accounts for year 1952-53. 

Banking Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953,No. 104. 

Bankruptcy Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953, No. 101. 

Commonwealth Bank Act - 

Appointment Certificate - R. Makim. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953, Nos. 103, 105. 

Conciliation and Arbitration Act - RegulationsStatutory Rules 1954, Nos. 2, 0. 

Customs Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953, No. 102." 

Customs Act and Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1954, No. 1. 

Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1954, No. 4. 

Report (Fifth) of Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board for year 1952-53. 

Defence Transition (Residual Provisions) Art - National Security (Industrial Property ) Regulations - Orders - Inventions and designs ( 16) . 

Explosives Act - Regulations - Order - Transport of Nitro-cellulose Cannon Powder. 

Hospital Benefits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953, No. 96. 

Lands Acquisition Act - 

Land, &amp;.c, acquired for - 

Defence purposes - 

Albion, Victoria. 

Murray Bridge, South Australia. 

Department of Civil Aviation purposes - 

Broken Hill, New South Wales. 

Cobar, New South Wales. 

Hay, New South Wales. 

Mentone, Victoria. 

Mount Canobolas, New South Wales. 

Narrabri, New South Wales. 

Walgett, New South Wales. 

Department of Immigration purposes - 

Scheyville, New South Wales ' 

Postal purposes - 

Ararat. Victoria. 

Bega, New South Wales. 

Buronga, New South Wales. 

Burrawang, New South Wales. 

Camberwell North. Victoria. . ' 

Garmigula. New South Wales. 

Kunama,  New South Wales. 

Longford. Tasmania. 

Mount Moriae. Victoria. 

Mount White. New South Wales. 

Quorrobolong, New South Wales. 

St. Kilda South, Victoria. 

Trentham Cliffs. New South Wales. 

Upper Burringbar . New South Wales. 

Stirling North to Leigh Creek North 

CoalfieldRailway purposes - Port Augusta, South Australia. 

Telegraphic. &amp;c., purposes - Ralph's Bay, Tasmania. 

Returns (3) of land disposed of under section63. 

National Health Service Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1953, Nos. 97. 98, 99, 106. Norfolk Island - Report for 1951.-52. 

Northern Territory (Administration) Act - Crown Lands Ordinance - 

Reasons for resumption of reserved land - 

Alice Springs. 

Tennant Creek. 

Ordinances - 1953 - 

No. 20 - Associations Incorporation. 

No. 21 - Jury. Regulations - 1953 - 

No. 10 (Darwin Administration Ordinance) . 

No. 11 (Supplyof Services Ordinance) . 

No. 12 (Prisons Ordinance). 

No. 13 (Licensed Surveyors 

Ordinance) . 

Papua and New Guinea Act - Ordinances - 1953- 

No. 3 - Copra. 

No. 4 - Animals Trespass. 

No.6 - Criminal Code Amendment (Papua) (No. 2). 

No. 10 - Customs Tariff Surcharge. 

No. 11 - Pure Food (No. 2). 

No. 17 - Native Apprenticeship. 

No.18 - Superannuation (Papua and New Guinea). 

No. 19 - Public Service. 

Pharmaceutical Benefits Act - Regulations - 

Statutory Rules 1953, No. 100. 

Post and Telegraph Act -Regulations - Statutory Rules 1954, No. 5. 

Public Service Act - Appointments - Department - 

Army - J. A. Harris. 

Civil Aviation - T. B. Curlewis.E. W. Eberbach, L. B. Irving, W. Jackson, W. F. Parr. R. M. Reilly, C. C. H. Thompson. J. C. Thorpe. J. E. Waters. 

Defence- . J. B. Firth. 

Defence Production- A. T. Duff, A. S. Gask in. 

Health- J. A. Donnison, R. E. Jones. 

Labour and National Service - A. F. H. A. Dresler. 

National Development -R. J. Davidson, J. A. Haycraft, J. W. Morgan. 

Parliamentary Library - G. M. Carroll. 

Repatriation - L. A. Ede. I. C. Heinz. J'. F. Hughes. 

Social Services - N.W. Ree. 

Supply - R. D. Barlow, A. A. Keeler, W. G. Ratcliffe, D. S. Robertson, W. V. Wiseman. 

Territories - B. J. Lee. 

Trade and Customs - P. A. Whiting. 

Works- P. B. Burns,E. J. Jones. R. S. McCulloch, J. J. O'Donnell, G. E. Price, S. N. Thorne. 

Report (Twenty-ninth) on the Commonwealth Public Service Board for the year 1952-53. 

Public Service Arbitration Act- Determinations - 1 953 - 

No.81 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association and others. 

No.82 - Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia and others. 

No.83 - Australian Broadcasting Commission Senior Officers' Association. 

No. 84 - Commonwealth Public Service Artisans' Association and others. 

No. 85 - Musicians' Union of Australia. 

No. 86 - Transport Workers' Union of Australia. 

No. 87- Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 

No. 88 - Federated Public Service Assistants' Association. 

No.89 - Federated Storemen and Packers' Union. 

No.90 - Postal Telecommunication Technicians' Association (Australia). 

No.91 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No.92 - Commonwealth Telegraph Traffic and Supervisory Officers' Association. 

No.93 - Vehicle Builders Employees' Federation of Australia. 

No.94 - Peace Officer Guard Association. 

No.95 - Australian Workers' Union. 

No.96 - Commonwealth Telephone and Phonogram Officers' Association and Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 

No.97 - Association of Professional Engineers, Australia. 

No.98 - Commonwealth Postmasters' 

Association and others. 

No. 99 - Amalgamated Engineering Union. 

No. 100 - Professional Radio Employees' Institute of Australasia. 

1954- 

No. 1 - Musicians' Union of Australia. 

No. 2 - Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 3 - Australian Broadcasting Commission Senior Officers' Association. 

No. 4 - Australian Journalists' Association. 

Quarantine Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1954, No. 3. 

River Murray Waters Act - River Murray Commission - Annual Report foryear 1952-53. 

Seat of Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government (Administration) Act- 

Council of the Soil Conservation Service of the Australian Capital Territory - Sixth Annual Report and Statement of Receipts and Payments for year 1952-53 together with summary of the activities of the Council for period 1947-53. 

Ordinances - 

1953- 

No. 14 - Court of Petty Sessions. 

No. 15 - Associations Incorporation. 1954- 

No.1 - Marriage. 

No. 2 - Administration and Probate (No. 2). 

No. 3 - Scaffolding and Lifts (No. 2). 

No. 4- Royal Visit Holiday. 

No. 5 - Police. 

Regulations - 

1953- 

No. 15 (Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance) . 

No.16 (Canberra Community Hospital Ordinance). 

1954- 

No. 1 (Building and Services Ordinance) . 

Seat of Government (Administration) Act - Statement of Receipts and Expenditure for the Australian Capital Territory for year 1952-53. 

Social Services Consolidation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1054, No.8. 

Supply and Development Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1954, No. 7. 

House adjourned at 5.25 p.m. to a date and hour to be fixed by  **Mr. Speaker.** 

