---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1928-02-22
year: 1928
session: 1
page_start: 1
parliament: 10
file_id: 19280222_reps_10_117
debates:
  - title: "MINISTERIAL CHANGES"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "MOTION OF CENSURE"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: motion of censure
    subdebates:
---

* [MINISTERIAL CHANGES](#debate-0)
* [MOTION OF CENSURE](#debate-1)


----


 **Mr.** Speaker (Hon.  SirLittleton  Groom) took the chair at 3 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 1

{:#debate-0}
### MINISTERIAL CHANGES

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minis ter and Minister for External Affairs &middot; Flinders &middot; NAT</small>

--  *(By leave.)*  - I desire to announce an alteration in the personnel of the Government. As honorable members are aware, the honorable member for Calare  **(Sir Neville Howse),**  suffered, last year, a very serious illness which necessitated his relinquishing the portfolio of Minister for Defence. In the consequent reallotment of offices, the honorable member for Parkes  **(Mr. Marr),**  who had been an Honorary Minister, became Minister for Home and Territories. I am glad to say that the health of the honorable member for Calare has been completely restored, and that he has again accepted a portfolio. He will administer the Department for Home and Territories and the Department of Health, and the honorable member for Parkes will resume his previous position as an Honorary Minister. 

{: .page-start }
page 1

{:#debate-1}
### MOTION OF CENSURE

##### Mr CHARLTON:<br><small class="text-muted">HUNTER, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

-- I give notice that to-morrow I shall move - 

  >That  in  the opinion  of this House,  the  Go vernment  is  deserving  of  severe censure for its failure  to  adequately protect Australian industries,  and to  limit migration  to  the nation's ability  to  absorb  now  arrivals,  together with its  neglect  to  formulate proposals  to deal with  unemployment. 

##### Mr BRUCE:<br><small class="text-muted">NAT</small>

-- As, on the re-assembling of the Parliament for what is virtually a new session, the Leader of the Opposition has given notice of a direct motion Of censure on the Government, I shall follow the parliamentary procedure whichis usual in the circumstances, and, therefore, move - 

  >That the  House  do  now adjourn. 

House adjourned at  3.4  p.m. 

