---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1955-09-14
year: 1955
session: 1
page_start: 629
parliament: 21
file_id: 19550914_reps_21_hor7
debates:
  - title: "ROYAL COMMISSION ON ESPIONAGE"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [ROYAL COMMISSION ON ESPIONAGE](#debate-0)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-1)


----


 **Mr. Deputy Speaker** 
 **(Mr. C. F.** Adermann) took the chair at 2.30 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 629

{:#debate-0}
### ROYAL COMMISSION ON ESPIONAGE

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; KOOYONG, VICTORIA &middot; LP</small>

-- I lay on the table the following paper: - 

  >Report of the Royal Commission  on  Espionage. 

Motion (by  **Mr. Holt)**  proposed - 

  >That the paper be  printed. 

Debate (on motion by  **Dr. Evatt)**  adjourned. 

DEATH OF SENATOR THE HONORABLE GEORGE McLEAY. 


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong - Prime Minister). -  **Mr. Deputy Speaker,**  as honorable members know,  **Senator McLeay**  died to-day at the age of 63 years. He was born in August, 1892, in the Yorke Peninsula in South Australia. He first came into this Parliament as a senator for South Australia after the general election held in 1934. He was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. In 1937, he was Government Whip in the Senate, and from November, 1938, until October, 1941, he was the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He was a member of the Economic Cabinet and a member of the War Cabinet, and he held various other offices which I need not enumerate, such as those of VicePresident of the Executive Council, Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, Minister for Trade and Customs, PostmasterGeneral and Minister for Repatriation. For a time he was Minister for Supply and Development. 

What I have said about it will illustrate to honorable members the extreme width of the experience that  **Senator McLeay**  had even in those years. In 1945, he went to the United Nations conference in San Francisco as an assistant to the Australian delegation, and I 'am sure that the Leader of the Opposition  **(Dr. Evatt)**  will have happy memories of his congenial association with the late honorable senator on that occasion. He suffered, of course, from the vicissitudes of politics. He was defeated at the general election of 1946, but was re-elected at the general election of 1949, and since then, as honorable members know, he has been a prominent member of the present Government, and  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate. 

The fact that George McLeay was defeated in 1946 and came back in 1949 is perhaps one of the indexes to his character and outlook. He was not easily permanently set down. I have never known a man of higher spirit, a man of more infinite good nature, a man who could .take all the knocks in argument, whether the argument was in the Cabinet room or on the floor of the Senate - take' knocks, and give knocks, and always remain infinitely good tempered, leaving no wounds on his own soul, and certainly none on the souls of others; He was a very remarkable man, and his death, so unexpected, is a great shock to all of us. I think I should not be exaggerating if I said that George McLeay was one of those rare men who enjoyed the affection of political friends and foes alike. I certainly have never heard any one in this House, or elsewhere for that matter, say about him anything that was harsh, uncharitable or unjust. The truth is that he himself could not have made such a remark about any one else. He was incapable of being harsh, uncharitable or unjust. 

I hope that his widow, who is so well known to all of us, and his children will obtain some comfort from the knowledge of our feelings, and I am sure that our friend, his brother, the honorable member for Boothby, will appreciate how we feel on this occasion. It is very difficult,  **Mr. Deputy Speaker,**  to say very much on these occasions, and so I move - 

  >That this House expresses its deep regret at the death of  **Senator the**  Honorable George McLeay, who at the time of his death was a  senator for the State of South Australia and a Minister of the Crown, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 

##### Dr EVATT:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Barton</small>

-- I second the motion. The news of the death of  **Senator George**  McLeay came as a great shock to us. 

The Opposition party this morning, in a small way, paid tribute to his memory and extended the very deep sympathy of the members of the party to his family and friends. He was in many ways a remarkable man. He held many public offices and was never discouraged in the face of adversity. I remember  **Senator**  McLeay's  work and valued assistance in 1945 at the San Francisco conference. He was the soul of geniality, good fellowship and good friendship. Some of us used to call him "  **Mr. Pickwick".**  He did not fail to resemble in some respects the drawings of Cruikshank  in the earlier Dickens publications. 'I think that what struck us all was his simplicity, his humanity, his kindness and the absence of guile from his disposition.  **Senator McLeay**  was a lovable character and he made every one feel happy by  his very presence. We deeply regret his death, and I join wholeheartedly in supporting the motion that the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  has proposed. 

##### Mr McEWEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Minister for Commerce and Agriculture &middot; Murray &middot; CP</small>

-- I desire to associate my colleagues of the Australian Country party and myself with the motion that has been moved by the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  and seconded by the Leader of the Opposition  **(Dr. Evatt).**  We are indeed greatly allocked and distressed at the untimely death of our friend and colleague. 

The late  **Senator McLeay**  was a very close personal friend of mine, and I think that every one who knew him counted him a friend. He was a very good Australian. He possessed a personality which attracted and held the affection of all with whom he came in contact in quite a rare degree.  **Senator McLeay**  had, as the Prime Minister has explained, a very long record of service to this country, and a long and valuable record of service to the political party to which he belonged. 

George McLeay was a man with a very sane philosophy, who brought his sanity to bear obviously on the many difficult problems with which, in the course of his career, he was obliged to grapple. I was quite closely associated with our friend. He entered the Parliament at the same time as T did, following the general election of 1934. With him, [ was invited to accompany the present Leader of the Opposition to the first United Nations conference in 1945, and because of his experience as a former Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, and his general interest in and understanding of the issues with which 1 am administratively concerned, he was asked to represent me during my various absences overseas on government business. Indeed, when I was ill and absent for some months a year or so ago,  **Senator McLeay**  acted as Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, and since my return to duty he has accepted the responsibility of working in association with me on matters connected with my portfolio, in which he was so experienced and interested, and to which he was able to contribute so much. 

As I have said,  **Senator McLeay**  was a really good Australian. He was a man of good and firm judgment, and possessed a strong personality. He had always a quite obvious direct approach to issues, and was able with a rare gift to speak in a most outspoken manner, but never in my experience did he provoke an atom of bitterness by his nonetheless direct approach to these issues. So, he grew to enjoy the affection and respect, 1101 only of all members of the Parliament, but also of all other persons with whom he worked.  **Senator McLeay**  had at all times a very clear sense of his responsibilities, and an undeviating firmness in the discharge of them. He had at all times a clear picture of the goal to which he was steering. It was always a good goal, related to what he conceived to be the Australian interest, and despite the extent to which he adhered to the national viewpoint, never at any time did he fail to have in mind the humanities of the situation. 

There was absolutely nothing at all mean in George  McLeay's  character. He was serious, and yet carried withal a certain joyfulness in his life. As I have said, and as both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have said also, he inspired and held the affection of all of us. His political career was positive, useful and good; its results will remain to the benefit of this country. On my own behalf, and on behalf of my colleagues in the Australian Country party, I extend to his widow and family and to his brother very sincere sympathy in their sad bereavement. 

##### Mr JOSHUA:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Anti-Communist Labour party &middot; Ballarat</small>

-- On my own behalf, and on behalf of those who sit with me, I join in the expressions of regret and sympathy at the death of  **Senator George**  McLeay that have been voiced by the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies),**  the Leader of the Opposition  **(Dr. Evatt)**  and the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture  **(Mr. McEwen).**  As the Prime Minister has said,  **Senator McLeay**  was a man of wide experience and great ability. He combined a strong personality with a forthright and straightforward character, and he had a likeable disposition. He was indeed a great Australian. I and my colleagues extend deep and sincere sympathy to his widow and children, and to his brother, the honorable member for Boothby  **(Mr. McLeay).** 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

{: .page-start }
page 631

{:#debate-1}
### ADJOURNMENT

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

-- As a mark of respect to the memory of the deceased honorable senator, I move - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

House adjourned at 2.46 p.m. 

