---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1951-06-12
year: 1951
session: 1
page_start: 21
parliament: 20
file_id: 19510612_reps_20_213
debates:
  - title: "PROCLAMATION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: proclamations
    subdebates:
  - title: "OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "MEMBERS SWORN"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ELECTION OF SPEAKER"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "FIFTH MENZIES MINISTRY"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
      - title: "Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, C.H., K.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-0"
      - title: "Treasurer - The Right Honorable Sir Arthur William Fadden, K.C.M.G"
        id: "#subdebate-5-2"
      - title: "Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt"
        id: "#subdebate-5-4"
      - title: "Minister for External Affairs - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-6"
      - title: "Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H"
        id: "#subdebate-5-8"
      - title: "Minister for Supply - The Honorable Howard Beale, K.C"
        id: "#subdebate-5-10"
      - title: "Minister for Social Services - The Honorable Athol Gordon Townley"
        id: "#subdebate-5-12"
  - title: "LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY"
    id: "#debate-7"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1951"
    id: "#debate-8"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-9"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "QUESTION"
    id: "#debate-10"
    type: questions
    subdebates:
      - title: "DAYS AND HOURS OF MEETING"
        id: "#subdebate-10-0"
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-11"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [PROCLAMATION](#debate-0)
* [OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT](#debate-1)
* [MEMBERS SWORN](#debate-2)
* [ELECTION OF SPEAKER](#debate-3)
* [COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH](#debate-4)
* [FIFTH MENZIES MINISTRY](#debate-5)
    * [Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, C.H., K.C](#subdebate-5-0)
    * [Treasurer - The Right Honorable Sir Arthur William Fadden, K.C.M.G](#subdebate-5-2)
    * [Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt](#subdebate-5-4)
    * [Minister for External Affairs - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C](#subdebate-5-6)
    * [Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H](#subdebate-5-8)
    * [Minister for Supply - The Honorable Howard Beale, K.C](#subdebate-5-10)
    * [Minister for Social Services - The Honorable Athol Gordon Townley](#subdebate-5-12)
* [LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION](#debate-6)
* [LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY](#debate-7)
* [ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1951](#debate-8)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-9)
* [QUESTION](#debate-10)
    * [DAYS AND HOURS OF MEETING](#subdebate-10-0)
* [PAPERS](#debate-11)


----

{: .page-start }
page 21

{:#debate-0}
### PROCLAMATION

The House met at 10.30 a.m., pursuant to the proclamation of Hia Excellency the Governor-General. 

The  Clerk  read the proclamation. 

{: .page-start }
page 21

{:#debate-1}
### OPENING OF THE PARLIAMENT

The Usher of the Black Ros, being announced, was admitted, and delivered the message that the Deputies of the Governor-General for the Opening of the Parliament requested the attendance' of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 

Honorable members attended accordingly, and, having returned, 

The Deputy authorized by the Governor-General to administer the oath or affirmation entered the chamber. 

The  Clerk  read the commission, under the Great Seal of the Commonwealth, authorizing the Honorable Wilfred Kelsham Fullagar, B.A., LLM., a Justice of the High Court of Australia, to administer the oath or affirmation of allegiance to the King required by the Constitution tobe taken or made by members of the House of Representatives. 

{: .page-start }
page 22

{:#debate-2}
### MEMBERS SWORN

The Clbbk.  -  I have to announce that I have received from the Official Secretary to the Governor-General returns to 123 writs for the election of members of the Souse of Representatives, held on the 28th April, 1951. 

The following honorable members with tho exception of  **Mr. Rowland**  James, who was not present, made and subscribed the oath or affirmation of allegiance : - 

Adermann, Charles Frederick, Fisher, Queensland. 

Anderson, Gordon, Kingsford-Smith, New South "Wales. 

Andrews, ThomasWilliam, Darebin, Victoria. 

Anthony, Hubert Lawrence, Richmond, New SouthWales. 

Bate, Henry Jefferson, Macarthur, New South "Wales. 

Beale, Oliver Howard, Parramatta, New SouthWales. 

Beazley, Kim Edward, Fremantle, Western Australia. 

Berry, Douglas Reginald, Griffith, Queensland. 

Bird, Alan Charles, Batman, Victoria. 

Bland, Francis Annand, Warringah, New South Wales. 

Bostock, William Dowling, Indi, Victoria. 

Bourke, William Meskill, Fawkner, Victoria. 

Bowden, George James,. Gippsland, Victoria. 

Brimblecombe, Wilfred John, Maranoa, Queensland.  Brown, Geoffrey William, McMillan, Victoria. 

Bruce, Henry Adam, Leichhardt, Queensland. 

Bryson, William George, Wills, Victoria. 

Burke, Thomas Patrick, Perth, Western Australia. 

Calwell, Arthur Augustus, Melbourne, Viotoria. 

Cameron, Archie Galbraith, Barker, South Australia. 

Cameron, Clyde Robert, Hindmarsh; South Australia. 

Cameron, Donald Alistair, Oxley. Queensland. 

Casey, Richard Gardiner, La Trobe. Victoria. 

Chambers, Cyril, Adelaide, South Australia. 

Chifley, Joseph Benedict, Macquarie. New South Wales. 

Clarey, Percy James, Bendigo, Victoria. 

Clark, Joseph James, Darling, New South Wales. 

Corser, Bernard Henry, Wide Bay, Queensland. 

Costa, Dominic Eric, Banks, New South Wales. 

Cramer, John Oscar, Bennelong, New South Wales. 

Crean, Frank, Melbourne Ports, Victoria. 

Cremean, John Lawrence, Hoddle, Victoria. 

Curtin, Danield James, Watson, New South Wales. 

Daly, Frederick Michael, Grayndler. New South Wales. 

Davidson, Charles William, Dawson. Queensland. 

Davies, William, Cunningham, New South Wales. 

Davis, Francis John, Deakin, Victoria. 

Dean, Roger Levinge, Robertson, New South Wales. 

Downer, Alexander Russell, Angas. South Australia. 

Drakeford, Arthur Samuel, Maribyrnong, Victoria. 

Drummond, David Henry, New England, New South Wales. 

Drury, Edward Nigel, Ryan, Queensland. 

Duthie, Gilbert William Arthur. Wilmot, Tasmania. 

Edmonds, William Frederick, Herbert. Queensland. 

Eggins, Eldred James, Lyne, New South Wales. 

Evatt, Herbert Vere, Barton, New South Wales. 

Fadden, Arthur William, McPherson. Queensland. 

Failes, Laurence John, Lawson, New South Wales. 

Fairbairn, David Eric, Farrer, New South Wales. 

Fairhall, Allen, Paterson, New South Wales. 

Falkinder, Charles William Jackson, Franklin, Tasmania. 

Fitzgerald, Joseph Francis, Phillip, New South Wales. 

Francis, Josiah, Moreton, Queensland. 

Fraser, Allan Duncan, Eden-Monaro, New South Wales. 

Fraser, James Reay, Australian Capital Territory. 

Freeth, Gordon, Forrest, Western Australia. 

Fuller, Arthur Neiberding, Hume, New South Wales. 

Galvin, Patrick, Kingston, South Australia. 

Graham, Bruce William, St. George, New South Wales. 

Grayden, William Leonard, Swan, Western Australia. 

Griffiths, Charles Edward, Shortland, New South Wales. 

Gullett, Henry Baynton Somer. Henty, Victoria. 

Hamilton, Leonard William, Canning, Western Australia. 

Harrison, Eli James, Blaxland, New South Wales. 

Harrison, Eric John, Wentworth, New South Wales. 

Hasluck, Paul Meernaa Caedwalla, Curtin, Western Australia. 

Haworth, William Crawford, Isaacs, Victoria. 

Haylen, Leslie Clement, Parkes, New South Wales. 

Holt, Harold Edward,Higgins, Victoria. 

Howse, John Brooke, Calare, New South Wales. 

Hughes, William Morris; Bradfield, New South Wales. 

Hulme, Alan Shallcross, Petrie, Queensland. 

Jack, William Mathers, North Sydney, New South Wales. 

James, Rowland, Hunter, New South Wales. 

Johnson, Herbert Victor, Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. 

Joshua, Robert, Ballaarat, Victoria. 

Kekwick, Bruce Huntley, Bass, Tasmania. 

Kent Hughes, Wilfred Selwyn. Chisholm, Victoria. 

Keon, Standish Michael, Yarra, Victoria. 

Lawrence, William Robert, Wimmera, Victoria. 

Lawson, George, Brisbane, Queensland. 

Lazzarini, Hubert Peter, Werriwa, New South Wales. 

Leslie, Hugh Alan, Moore, Western Australia. 

Luck, Aubrey William George, Darwin, Tasmania. 

McBride, Philip Albert Martin, Wakefield, South Australia. 

McColm, Malcolm Llewellyn, Bowman, Queensland. 

McDonald, Allan McKenzie, Corangamite, Victoria. 

McEwen, John, Murray, Victoria. 

McLeay, John, Boothby, South Australia. 

McLeod, Donald, Wannon, Victoria. 

McMahon, William, Lowe, New South Wales. 

Menzies, Robert Gordon, Kooyong. Victoria. 

Minogue, Daniel, West Sydney, New South Wales. 

Morgan, Charles Albert Aaron, Reid. New South Wales. 

Mulcahy, Daniel, Lang, New South Wales. 

Mullens, John Michael, Gellibrand. Victoria. 

Nelson, John Norman, Northern Territory. 

O'Connor, William Paul, Martin, New South Wales. 

Opperman, Hubert Ferdinand, Corio, Victoria. 

Osborne, Frederick Meares, Evans. New South Wales. 

Page, Earle Christmas Grafton, Cowper, New South Wales. 

Pearce, Henry George, Capricornia. Queensland. 

Peters, Edward William, Burke, Victoria. 

Pollard, Reginald Thomas, Lalor, Victoria. 

Riordan., William James Frederick, Kennedy, Queensland. 

Roberton, Hugh Stevenson, Riverina, New South Wales. 

Rosevear, John Solomon, Dalley, New South Wales. 

Russell, Edgar Hughes Deg, Grey, South Australia. 

Ryan, Rupert Sumner, Flinders, Victoria. 

Sheehan, Thomas, Cook, New South Wales. 

Swartz, Reginald William Colin, Darling Downs, Queensland. 

Thompson, Albert Victor, Port Adelaide, South Australia. 

Timson, Thomas Frank, Higinbotham, Victoria. 

Townley, Athol Gordon, Denison, Tasmania. 

Treloar, Thomas John, Gwydir, New South Wales. 

Turnbull, Winton George, Mallee, Victoria. 

Ward, Edward John, East Sydney, New South Wales. 

Watkins, David Oliver, Newcastle, New South Wales. 

Wentworth, William Charles, Mackellar, New South Wales. 

Wheeler, Roy Crawford, Mitchell, New South Wales. 

White, Thomas Walter, Balaclava, Victoria. 

Wight, Bruce McDonald, Lilley, Queensland. 

AVilson, Keith Cameron, Sturt, South Australia. 

{: .page-start }
page 24

{:#debate-3}
### ELECTION OF SPEAKER

##### Mr MCDONALD:<br><small class="text-muted">Corangamite</small>

-- I move - 

  >That the honorable member for Barker  **(Mr. Archie Cameron)**  do take the chair of this House as  Speaker. 

##### Mr Bowden:

--  I second the motion. 

##### Mr ARCHIE CAMERON:<br><small class="text-muted">BARKER, SOUTH AUSTRALIA &middot; CP; LP from 1944; LCL from 1951; LP from 1954</small>

--  I accept nomination. 

##### Mr BEAZLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

-I move - 

  >That the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  do take the chair of this House as  Speaker. 

##### Mr Joshua:

--  I second the motion. 

##### Mr Rosevear:

--  I accept nomination. 


 *The time" for further proposals having expired,* 


##### Mr BEAZLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Fremantle</small>

.- On behalf of the Opposition, I shall state the reasons why the unusual course has been taken of nominating a member from its own ranks against the nominee of the Government, who was the  Speaker  in the last Parliament. However, such a course is not without precedent. The Opposition has taken this action, not because it has any illusions about the result of the vote for the election of  **Mr. Speaker,**  but because it wishes to show its disapproval of the manner in which the Government's nominee exorcised his function as  **Mr. Speaker**  in the Nineteenth Parliament. We believe that the honorable member for Barker  **(Mr. Archie Cameron),**  who has been nominated by the Government, was deficient in his public discharge of his duty, in his treatment of individual members of this House, and in his interpretation of Standing Order 303 under which, without a vote of the House, he required the withdrawal of honorable members from the chamber. We object strongly to his habit of casting persona] reflections on honorable members on this side of ' the House, especially in respect of their former occupations, as he did to the right honorable member for Barton  **(Dr. Evatt)**  and to the honorable member for Wilmot  **(Mr. Duthie).**  Scarcely a day passed in the last Parliament without some completely partisan shaft of sarcasm being directed at individual members of the Opposition. We consider that his interpretation of the Standing Orders, which caused the withdrawal of members from the House, has been the means of saving himself the embarrassment of seeing certain members on his right vote with the Opposition against his arbitrary actions. That actually happened on one occasion. Therefore, we believe that the Government, if it proposes to proceed with the appointment of a man who uses his position to air public vendettas against highly placed persons, and private ones against members of the Opposition, should be shown before the public as one making the appointment of a partisan  Speaker,  by a partisan vote, without the consent of the Opposition. 

##### Mr CALWELL:<br><small class="text-muted">Melbourne</small>

-- When the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  was nominated for the office of  Speaker  of the House of Representatives in the Eighteenth Parliament, the then Leader of the Opposition,  **Mr.** 

Menzies, nominated the honorable member for Corangamite  **(Mr. McDonald)**  and said, among other things - 

  >We believe,  mid  imagine that  all  honorable members will believe, that it is the function of  **Mr. Speaker**  to be scrupulously impartial in his treatment of both sides of the House. All honorable members who were in the last Parliament will recall that on, at any rate, two occasions, it became necessary for the members of the Opposition to put into formal shape their protest against rulings given by  **Mr. Speaker**  in that Parliament, and against what they believe to be his partial treatment of members of the House. 

If there were any grounds for complaint against the manner in which  **Mr. Speaker**  Rosevear presided over this House, we believe that the Opposition in the Nineteenth Parliament had much more reason to be dissatisfied with the treatment that was meted out by his successor,  **Mr. Speaker**  Cameron.  **Mr. Speaker**  Rosevear had the distinction of occupying the office of  Speaker  of the House of Representatives for a longer period than had any of his predecessors. He made his mistakes, but he at least did try to be fair, and he at least had the authority of  *May,*  and of others to justify his rulings. In the last Parliament, we had the spectacle of the honorable member for Barker, as  **Mr. Speaker,**  ruling out a notice of motion on one day, yet permitting it to be discussed two days later. When it was pointed out in division to him that he had previously ruled the motion out of order, he said, " Well, we might as well have a vote on something ". That is the rafferty's rule principle under which the procedure of this House was directed by  **Mr. Speaker**  Cameron. We believe that, on many occasions, he was harsh, unjust and unfair. We also believe that he was prejudiced, biased and partisan. In that spirit we submit as our nominee for the Chair the name of the best  Speaker  that this House has had in its history. If the honorable member for Barker wished to find an example upon which he could base his conduct, he need go no further back than  **Mr. Speaker**  Nairn, who at least had the respect of honorable members on both sides of the House. Unfortunately,  **Mr. Speaker**  has demonstrated his exhibitionism on many occasions. That is a regrettable trait in his make-up. 

We do not dislike him on personal grounds, but we think that he has a duty to the whole of the Parliament and that he should be perfectly fair to all honorable members.  His  treatment of the honorable member for Wilmot  **(Mr. Duthie)**  in the Nineteenth Parliament was a particularly bad example of petty tyranny. We believe that his misuse of Standing Order 303 was deliberate and that the standing order was never intended by the Parliament to be used in that way. It was promulgated for the purpose of authorizing the removal of any member who might be under the influence of liquor. But it was used during the Nineteenth Parliament for the removal of honorable members who, for the moment, happened to have cause for dissatisfaction with  **Mr. Speaker!**  No honorable member on theGovernment side of the House was removed from the chamber, although the conduct of such honorable members on many occasions was more worthy of condemnation than was that of any member of the Opposition. We believe that no honorable member should be removed from the House except by a direct vote of the House. We hope that, should the former  Speaker  be re-elected, he will improve his ways and will be much fairer than he has been in the past. At any rate, lie is the only Minister in the history of the Parliament of the Commonwealth to be removed from the House for disobeying the  Speaker.  He was removed from this chamber for the duration of one sitting on the motion of his own Prime Minister. A man with a conviction of that sort recorded against him is not: worthy to be -the  Speaker  of this House. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

.- This exhibition that, is being put on by the Opposition is entirely discreditable and will deceive nobody. The two honorable members who have already addressed themselves to the Chair have sought to recapitulate all the complaints that they had against the  Speaker  in the last. Parliament. Their object, no doubt, has been to provoke a lengthy debate in which all those matters will once more be discussed as the result of which, of course, the new  Speaker  will come to the Chair in an atmosphere made suitably murky bv the discussion. I do not propose to introduce the new  Speaker  to the Chair in such circumstances.Every honorable member who was in this House during the last Parliament will recall that every one of those matters was debated at the time, and every honorable member who is familiar with the practices of this House knows that, after all these matters have once more been discussed - and they have been adjudged upon already by the vote of the House time after time to the entire vindication of  **Mr. Speaker**  Cameron - I shall rise to congratulate  **Mr. Speaker**  and the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Chifley)**  will add his congratulations to  **Mr. Speaker**  upon having attained the office that he once more holds. 

##### Mr Ward:

--  Do not be too sure of that ! 

##### Mr MENZIES:

-- I hope that I may be sure, because I should never anticipate any breach of parliamentary decorum from the righthonorablegentleman who sits opposite me. I know exactly what is going to happen, and the sooner it happens the better. 

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  put by the  Clerk- 

  >That the question be now put. 

The House divided.

AYES: 68

NOES: 51

Majority . .   . . 17 

AYES

NOES

Question so resolvedin the affirmative. 


 *The bells having beenrunganda ballot having been taken,* 


##### The Clerk:

--  I have to announce the result of the ballot as follows: -  **Mr. Archie**  Cameron, 67 votes;  **Mr. Rosevear.**  52 votes. As the honorable member for Barker has secured a majority of the votes of the members present, he is elected to the position of  Speaker  of this House. 


 *Members of the House then calling* 
 **Mr. Archie** 
 *Cameron to the Chair, he was taken out of his place by Mr.McDonald and* 
 **Mr. Bowden** 
 *and conducted to the Chair.* 



 **Mr. SPEAKER** said  On this the second occasion of my election as  Speaker  of this House I thank the House, or those of its members who "voted for me. for this mark of the confidence that they have in me. I shall leave in its proper place, which is oblivion, what was said a little while ago. It might have been better said by lips other than those that uttered it. But when one is over 50 years of age one seldom changes for the better I assure the House that in the20th Parliament the Standing Orders will be administered in exactly the same way as they were administered in the19th Parliament. 

The only other remark that I wish tomake - and this will be the second occasion on which I shall have made it - has reference to the order of precedence of the presiding officers of the two houses of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. The matter has been put by me, in. writing, to the Prime Minister  **(Mr..** 

Menzies). It has arisen, on this occasion, out of the visit which I was fortunate enough to be able to make to London last year in connexion with the opening of the new British House of Commons. With the new status accorded to the Dominions as a result of the passage of the Statute of Westminster, it seems to me completely wrong that the presiding officers of the two houses of the Parliament of the Commonwealth should rank lower than the junior Ministers of the Executive. 

##### Mr Rosevear:

--  Hear, hear! 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I admit that in that regard I find myself on the same side as the honorable member for Dalley  **(Mr. Rosevear)**  occupied on a previous occasion. I put it to the House that no man can become a member of the Executive unless he has first become a member of either of the two Houses of the Parliament. In my view the person elected to preside over either of those Houses, however unworthy he may be, or no matter how many toes he may have trodden on in his political career, is in a position that warrants a higher status than, that accorded to him in the present order of precedence. Having said that,  r  take the chair. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *having seated himself in the Chair,* 



 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong - Prime Minister). - I offer to you, sir, our congratulations on your renewed appointment to the high office of  Speaker  of this House. I speak, of course, having heard your remarks just now, with all the disability of a man who has been changing teadily for the worse during the last six Years. Subject to that disability, I assure you that, whatever differences you may have heard about - and I am sure you have not heard of them to-day in your official capacity - everybody in this place has a warm regard for your honesty and your ability. We are particularly glad that, comparatively recently, you had the opportunity in London, at the time of "the opening of the new House of Commons, to meet other presiding officers from other British countries, I have no doubt to your own great advantage as a result of the many contacts you made. We look forward to having, from time to time, the benefit of that additional experience which you have been able to gain. We congratulate you and wish you well. 

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Macquarie</small>

-- I join with the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Menzies)**  in extending congratulations to you,  **Mr. Speaker,**  on your election to the very distinguished position that you now hold and on having secured the unanimous backing of the Government and its supporters in thi? House in their nomination of you for that position. I say, as the Prime Minister has said, that whatever differences of opinion there may be nobody in thi? House doubts your complete honesty and integrity. But it would be idle for me to say that some of your actions and rulings during the last Parliament gave anything but profound dissatisfaction to honorable members on this side of the House. In my opinion, some of your rulings were calculated to provoke discord and disharmony and to arouse among Opposition members the feeling that you were not acting in as impartial a manner as the speech which you made on the occasion of your last election to the Speakership of this House would have led honorable members to expect. How- .,. ever, hope springs eternal in the human ' breast, and I had hoped that your conduct of the proceedings might have become better as time passed, but the remarks that you have just made rather dissipate any such hopes. In offering you my congratulations I can only say that I regret that that is' the view which' yon have taken of the way in which the proceedings of this House should be conducted. I trust that you will reconsider what you have just said concerning your intention to administer the standing orders in the manner in which you administered them during the last Parliament. 

I do not say that in any personal sense. I congratulate you upon having been chosen to occupy the distinguished position to which you have been » elected and I am sure that honorable members on both sides of the House will pay to the Chair the respect to which it is entitled. I can only hope that in return we shall receive completely unbiased treatment in the conduct of the proceedings of this House. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I thank both right honorable gentlemen for their congratulations. 

Presentation to the Governor-General. 


 **Mr. MENZIES** (Kooyong- Prime Minister). - I beg to inform honorable members that His Excellency the Governor-General will receive the newly elected Speaker in the Library at 2.44 p.m. this day. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- Prior to my presentation to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, the bells will be rung for three minutes, so that those honorable members who so desire may accompany me to the Library and there be presented to  His Excellency. 


 *Sitting suspended from 11.58 a.m. to 2.42 p.m.* 



 *The House proceeded to the Library, and, being re-assembled,* 


##### Mr SPEAKER:

-- I have to report that, accompanied by honorable members, I proceeded to the Library of the Parliament and presented myself to His Excellency the Governor-General as the choice of the House. 

The Usher  *of*  the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered a message that  His Excellency  the Governor-General desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate chamber forthwith. 


 **Mr. Speaker** 
 *and honorable members attended accordingly and, having re- turned,* 


{: .page-start }
page 28

{:#debate-4}
### COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER OATH

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-(Hon. Archie Cameron). - I have received from His Excellency the Governor-General a commission authorizing me to administer to members of the House the oath, or affirmation, of allegiance. I now lay the commission on the table. 

{: .page-start }
page 28

{:#debate-5}
### FIFTH MENZIES MINISTRY

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

-- I formally announce to the House the names of Ministers constituting the new Ministry - 

{:#subdebate-5-0}
#### Prime Minister - The Right Honorable Robert Gordon Menzies, C.H., K.C

{:#subdebate-5-1}
#### Treasurer - The Right Honorable Sir Arthur William Fadden, K.C.M.G

Vice-President of the Executive Council, and Minister for Defence Production - The Honorable Eric John Harrison. 

{:#subdebate-5-2}
#### Minister for Labour and National Service and Minister for Immigration - The Honorable Harold Edward Holt

Minister for Commerce and Agriculture - The Honorable John McEwen. 

{:#subdebate-5-3}
#### Minister for External Affairs - The Right Honorable Richard Gardiner Casey, C.H., D.S.O., M.C

Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air - The Honorable Philip Albert Martin McBride. 

{:#subdebate-5-4}
#### Minister for Health - The Right Honorable Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H

Minister for Trade and Customs -  **Senator the**  HonorableNeil O'Sullivan. 

Minister for Shipping and Transport -  **Senator the**  Honorable George McLeay. 

Postmaster-General and Minister for Civil Aviation - The HonorableHubert Lawrence Anthony. 

Minister for the Army - The Honorable Josiah Francis. 

Attorney-General -  **Senator the**  Honorable John Armstrong Spicer, K.C. 

Minister for National Development -  **Senator the**  Honorable William HenrySpooner, M.M. 

Minister for Repatriation -  **Senator the**  Honorable Walter Jackson Cooper, M.B.E. 

{:#subdebate-5-5}
#### Minister for Supply - The Honorable Howard Beale, K.C

Minister for the Interior and Minister for Works and Housing - The Honorable Wilfred Selwyn Kent Hughes, M.V.O., O.B.E., M.C, E.D. 

{:#subdebate-5-6}
#### Minister for Social Services - The Honorable Athol Gordon Townley

Minister for Territories - The Honorable Paul Meernaa . Caed walla Hasluck. 

Senate Ministers will be represented in this House as follows :  - The Minister for Trade and Customs will be represented by the Minister for Defence 

Production. The Minister for Shipping and Transport will be represented by the Postmaster-General. The AttorneyGeneral will he represented by myself. The Minister for National Development will be represented by the Minister for External Affairs. The Minister for Repatriation will be represented by the Minister for the Army. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-6}
### LEADERSHIP OF THE OPPOSITION

##### Mr CHIFLEY:<br><small class="text-muted">Macquarie</small>

-- I desire to announce that I have been chosen as Leader of the Opposition and that the right honorable member for Barton  **(Dr. Evatt)**  has been chosen as  Deputy  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-7}
### LEADERSHIP OF THE AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY PARTY

##### Sir ARTHUR FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Treasurer &middot; McPherson &middot; CP</small>


 *-I* desire to announce that I have been appointed Leader of the Australian Country party and that the honorable member for Murray  **(Mr. McEwen)**  has been appointed  Deputy  Leader. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-8}
### ACTS INTERPRETATION BILL 1951

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be given to bring in a bill for an act to amend the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1950. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-9}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

address-in-Reply. 

##### Mr SPEAKER:

-(Hon. Archie Cameron). - I have to report that the House thisday attended His Excellency the Governor-General in the Senate chamber, where His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of the Parliament, of which I have obtained a copy  *(vide*  page  12). 

Motion (by  **Mr. Menzies)**  agreed to - 

  >That a committee, consisting of  **Mr. Bland, Mr. Brimblecombe,**  and the  mover,  be  appointed  to  prepare an Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  His Excellency  the  Governor-General to both Houses of  the  Parliament, and that  the  committee do report at the next sitting. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-10}
### QUESTION

{:#subdebate-10-0}
#### DAYS AND HOURS OF MEETING

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister &middot; Kooyong &middot; LP</small>

--  I move - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to to-morrow, at 3 p.m. 

I point out to honorable members that there are some difficulties about continuously sitting this week - certain other events are occurring - and that, therefore, it is proposed that this week the House shall sit to-morrow afternoon but not to-morrow night, and not on Thursday or Friday. However, I propose to ask the House to sit thereafter on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of each week. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

{: .page-start }
page 29

{:#debate-11}
### PAPERS

The following papers were presented :  - 

Air Force Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1051, No. 18. 

Commonwealth Bank Act - 

Appointment Certificate - N. Botham. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1051, No. 41. 

Customs Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, Nos. 34, 38, 43. 

Dairy Produce Export Control Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1051, No. 25. 

Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1051, Nos. 20, 40. 

Defence (Transitional Provisions) Act - National Security (Industrial Property) Regulations - Orders - Inventions and designs (9). 

Flax Canvas Bounty Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1051, No. 17. 

Hospital Benefits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules1951 , No. 28. 

Lands Acquisition Act - Land, &amp;c., acquired for - 

Defence purposes - 

North Sydney, New South Wales. 

Puckapunyal, Victoria. 

Queenscliff, Victoria. 

Woodstock, Queensland. 

Department of Civil Aviation purposes - 

Ararat, Victoria. 

Cooktown, Queensland. 

Eagle Farm, Queensland. 

Griffith, New South Wales. 

Western Junction, Tasmania. 

Immigration purposes - Devonport, Tasmania. 

Postal purposes - 

Bairnsdale, Victoria. 

Bendigo, Victoria. 

Benjaberring, Western Australia. 

Bingara. New South Wales. 

Crows Nest, New South Wales. 

Fivedock, New South Wales. 

Griffith, New South Wales. 

Launceston, Tasmania. 

Newstead, Tasmania. 

Northcote, Victoria. 

Oakleigh, Victoria. 

Omeo, Victoria. 

Pine Point, South Australia. 

Redfern, New South Wales. 

South Kumminin, Western Australia. 

Two Wells, South Australia. 

Westbury, Tasmania. 

Williams, Western Australia. 

Young, New South Wales. 

Meat Export Control Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, Nos. 29, 35. 

National Service Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 32. 

Nationality and Citizenship (Burmese) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 21. 

Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 36. 

Navigation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 37. 

Papua and New Guinea Act - Ordinances - 1951- 

No. 1 - Superannuation. 

No. 2 - Volcanic and Seismic Disturbances. 

No. 3 - Administration or Contracts. 

No. 4 - Matrimonial Causes (Papua). 

No. 5 - Divorce and Matrimonial Causes (New Guinea) . 

No.6 - Petroleum (Prospecting and Mining) . 

No. 7 - Arbitration (Public Service). 

Pharmaceutical Benefits Act - Regulations - 

Statutory Rules 1951, No. 15. 

Post and Telegraph Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules1951, Nos. 22, 23. 

Post and Telegraph Act and Wireless Telegraphy Act - Regula tions - Statutory ules, 1951 , No. 24. 

Public Service Act - 

Appointments - Department - 

Air- O. C. Matta. 

Civil Aviation - W.O. Aim. J. L. R. Atkinson. N. V. Brown, A. M. Cox, W. G.Feige. C. W. Fennell. S. W. Hart. K. H. King. J. R.Krygger, K. P. B. Lee. L. M. Leslie, N. Silberberg, C. L. Tottenham, C. E. Williams. 

Commerce and Agriculture - E. J. Johnston. 

Defence - G. R. Dunbar. J. K.Geary, G. H. Heyen, E. L. D. White. 

Fuel. Shipping and Transport - M. T. Duggan, W. T. McFadyen. 

Interior - J. F. Turner. 

Labour andNational Service - G. Brett. 

S. D. Lay, G. G. Milne. 

National Development - J. G. Best. J. L. Bruce. R. N. Collin. K. H. Danks. 

G.  R. Giles, C. M. Gray, N. J. Mackay, S. M. Moorreess. J. G. Munro. 

Prime Minister's: - P. M. Finley. D. C. Sutherland. 

Repatriation - K. Finch. D. C.Forsyth. W. P. Harris, P. G. Hayes, P.M. Johnston. M. A. Laidler, J. D. MacLeod. P. E. Mason, R. M. Peel. B.Pelling,. E. J.Taylor. P.Whyment, D. L.Wilhelm. 

Social Services - E. A. Will. 

Works and Housing- R. W.Amess. E. H. Barker, C. T. Bath, T. G. Chapman, F. Chisholm, W. G. Collins, W. J. Dennis, A. Dutton, J. Fergusson. D. T. Fraser, B. G. Gloury, G. G. H. Hardinge, R. R. Hartigan, R. J. B. Hiscox, R. L. Howarth, D. A. Hunt, J. G. Hutchison, A. G. Hutton, E. Jensen, R. E. Jobson, D. J. Law, J. J. Lopes, J. T. McCarthy, A. L. McKinnon, R. B. Oastler, L. W. O'Connor, B. P. Powditch, F. R. Price. R. S. Purdie, N. B. Ricketts, G. H. Robertson, R. G. Sercombe, F. I. H. Smalpage, A . P. Smith, R. G. Smith. T. Stillman, P. R. Swan, A. W. Taunton, C. M. Teague, C. A. Tonisseu. J. A. Vines, J. Walls, R. C. Whiting. G. W. Wildman, A. J. Wilson. 

Regulations- Statutory Rules 1951., Nos. 13, 33. 

No.26, 27 (Parliamentary Officers). 

Public Service Arbitration Act - Determinations by the Arbitrator, &amp;c. - 1951 - 

No. 18 - TransportWorkers' Unionof Australia. 

No. 19 - Non-official Postmasters' Association of Australia. 

No. 20 - AmalgamatedEngineering Union and others. 

No. 21 - Professional Officers' Association, Commonwealth Public Service. 

No. 22 - Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 23 - Australian Journalists' Asso ciation. 

No. 24 - Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union. 

No. 25 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No. 20 - Australian Journalists' Asso ciation. 

No. 27 - Amalgamated Engineering Union and others. 

No. 28 - Transport Workers' Union of Australia. 

No. 29 - Federated Clerics' Union of Australia. 

No. 30 - Commonwealth Telegraph Traffic and Supervisory Officers' Association. 

No. 31 - Printing Industry Employees' Union of Australia. 

No. 32 - Commonwealth Public Service Artisans' Association. 

No. 33 - Australian Journalists' Association. 

No. 34 - Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 

No. 35 - Commonwealth Public Service Artisans' Association. 

No.36 - Australian Workers' Union. 

No. 37 - Association of Railway Profes sional Officers of Australia. 

No. 38 - Postal Overseers' Union of Australia. 

No. 39 - Amalgamated Engineering Union and others. 

No. 40 - Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 

No. 41  -  Amalgamated Engineering Union and others. 

No. 42  -  Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union of Australia. 

Scat of Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government (Administration) Act - Ordinances  -  1961 - 

No. 2 - Workmen's Compensation. 

No.3  -  Public Health. 

No. 4 - Commonwealth Jubilee Holiday. 

Regulations  -  1951  -  No. 1  -  (Buildings and Services Ordinance). 

Superannuation Act - Superannuation Board - Twenty-sixth Annual Report, for year  1947-48. 

Treaty of Peace (Germany) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 31. 

War Services Homes Act - 

Land acquired - Burnie, Tasmania.. 

Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 16. 

Wine Overseas Marketing Act- Regulations -Statutory Rules 1951, No. 30. 

Wireless Telegraphy Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 19. 

Wool Products Bounty Act - Reflations - Statutory Rules 1951, No. 39. 

House adjourned at 3.51 p.m. 

