---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1945-07-05
year: 1945
session: 3
page_start: 4112
parliament: 17
file_id: 19450705_reps_17_183
debates:
  - title: "DEATH OF THE RIGHT HONORABLE JOHN CURTIN, M.P"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "INTERIM ADMINISTRATION"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: special adjournment
    subdebates:
  - title: "LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: adjournment
    subdebates:
---

* [DEATH OF THE RIGHT HONORABLE JOHN CURTIN, M.P](#debate-0)
* [INTERIM ADMINISTRATION](#debate-1)
* [SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT](#debate-2)
* [LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS](#debate-3)
* [ADJOURNMENT](#debate-4)


----


 **Mr.** Speaker  (Hon. J.  S.  Rosevear) took the chair at 2.30 p.m., and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 4112

{:#debate-0}
### DEATH OF THE RIGHT HONORABLE JOHN CURTIN, M.P

##### Mr FORDE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister and Minister for the Army &middot; Capricornia &middot; ALP</small>

-- It is my melancholy duty formally to inform honorable members of the tragic death early this morning of the Prime Minister, the Right Honorable John Curtin. 

To-day, the Australian nation mourns and offers to this common man, this son of the people, a tribute of affection, gratitude and honour, which has been offered rarely, even to kings. For this man was truly one with the masses who populate our country. He had striven and struggled among them, and when he came to the highest place in the land he was still one of them. 

John Curtin is as one to-day with those fighting men of our race who have given their lives that we might live. For them, interposing, as he himself put it, their bodies between us and the enemy, he worked day and' night for many weary months and years that they might have the strength to hold out. For the British race and for the cause of the United Nations, he did everything that was in his power to shape policies that would produce the maximum effort on the part of this country. 

As I said earlier to-day, the captain has been stricken in sight of the shore. His memorial stands around us - a free land, a free people. And I feel that he has chosen his own epitaph - in the words of Swinburne, which he quoted to the Australian people on that momentous day, the 8th December, 1941, when Japan struck. They were - 

  >Come forth, be born and live, 
  >
  >Thou that hast help to give, 
  >
  >And light to make man's day of manhood fair, 
  >
  >With flight outflying the sphered sun, 
  >
  >Hasten thine hour 
  >
  >John Curtin's work was done, well and faithfully done. Nothing remained for fulfilment, but the laurel wreath of victory and the benefaction of peace. And so he was called home to rest. It may be said that the call came before its time. But I think I interpret the feeling of allmen when I say that I am thankful that he was spared for so long during this dreadful struggle to guide our nation's destiny. 
  >
  >It is true that he had dreams for the future. He had an abiding faith in the future national greatness of Australia, and I recall the vivid picture he painted of what he could see for the future in a speech that he made in Sydney in June, 1943, when addressing theNew South Wales conference of his political party.But it was not to be for him. For those of us who remain, he has set a course to follow, and the best tribute we can pay to his memory will be to do as he would have wished us to do. 
  >
  >In this regard, his faith in Australia was expressed by himself on that day in April, 1939, when, in this place, be offered the sympathy of his party to the family of the late  **Mr. J.**  A. Lyons.  **Mr. Curtin**  said then : " We believe that the country that yielded such a man can continue to produce such men". When the hour arrived, Australia produced John Curtin, and now that he has gone this country is without its leader. In this moment of grief, I am sure he would, if he could, say to us to have faith in ourselves and to carry on the task of building our nation to greatness. 
  >
  >We, in this Parliament, here and in another place, have lost a colleague. We have lost, too, a guide and a friend. And Parliament, as a democratic institution, has lost one of its staunchest adherents, who revered it, and did much to uphold its dignity and influence. 
  >
  >We of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party cannot assess our loss in a measure of words.  His  period of leadership, extending over the record term of nine years, nine months and five days, commenced at a time of trouble in the party's fortunes.  His  untiring work, shining example, and high ideals raised it to its zenith, and to-day it has a strength unapproached at any time in its history. All of us will treasure those rare moments when, with the informality of which he was suddenly and spontaneously capable, he would chat with us individually or in groups. To those ofus who had the honor and privilege to sit under his chairmanship in the Cabinet room, he gave a wealth of knowledge which will stand us in good stead. 
  >
  >I had refrained from referring to the feelings of persons, governments and countries other than our own. but I feel that, as a tribute to Australia, it should go on record here that during this morning and this afternoon expressions of sympathy and deep regret have been received from all parts ofthe world ; and, on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia, I acknowledge them with pride and gratitude. The tributes paid by the world to our great Australian, reflect John Curtin as a world figure. That is very fitting, for John Curtin worked for all humanity. In the course of my recent visit to England and America I found that on his tour abroad last year he had made a profound impression upon the statesmen and peoples of both of those countries. 
  >
  >And so we now bid farewell to a man for whom, I am confident, history will mark a place as Australia's greatest son. It is a consolation to every one to knowthat this gallant, happy warrior passed on without pain. He faced the last great crisis, fortified by the philosophy which had seen him through so many personal and political crises, both before and after he became Prime Minister. His last words were spoken to his dearly beloved wife, his constant and never failing helpmate and counsellor. 
  >
  >I place on record the formal account of the late Prime Minister's public service - 
  >
  >In 1924, he was a delegate to the International Labour Office Conference at Geneva and visited Britain. During 1927-28, he was a member of theRoyal Commission on Child Endowment - and I pause here to add that he lived to see his minority report translated into law by an act sponsored by his own Government. In 1928, he was elected to the House of Representatives for the division of Fremantle, and was a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public 

Works from 1929 to 1931. He was defeated at the general election in 1931. The Government of "Western Australia appointed him as its advocate before the Commonwealth Grants Commission from 1933 to 1935. In 1934, he wa&lt;= again returned as member for Fremantle in this House and he has represented that division since. He became leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party on the 1st October, 1935, and was Leader of the Opposition in this House until the 1st October, 1941, on which clay he became Prime Minister and Minister for Defence. He had previously joined the Advisory War Council - in October, 19-1:0 - and had given of the very best that was in him in assisting the Government of the clay in its endeavours to speed up Australia's war effort. 


 **His** Majesty the King created him a Privy Councillor in May, 1942.  **Mr. Curtin**  attended the conference of Prime Ministers in May. 1.944, and during his stay in London was received by  His  Majesty and was formally sworn as a Privy Councillor. He was made a Freeman of the City of London and an honorary Doctor of Law of Cambridge University. The Lord Mayor of London told me that the speech made by John Curtin on the occasion when he was made a Freeman of the City of London was  one of the most brilliant speeches he had ever heard in that historic building in which the ceremony took place. During his visit, overseas, lie met the late  President  Roosevelt in the United States of America and was also received by the Prime Minister of Canada,  **Mr. McKenzie**  King, at Ottawa. In our frequent meetings at San Francisco,  **Mr. McKenzie**  King regularly asked after his great personal friend, John Curtin, and with deep emotion, asked me to express to him his sincere wishes for a. speed-y recovery. 

Tt should be noted that  **Mr. Curtin**  was Prime Minister continuously for a longer period than any previous holder of that office from his party - three years, nine months and a day. The late  **Mr. Andrew**  Fisher held the office for a greater period, but during three distinct  *terms.* 

Those are the biographical details of a career about which many volumes could be written. Death has written "finis", but death can never take from our heartsand minds the memory of John Curtin. it is now my sad task to submit the following motion: - 

  >That this House expresses its deep regret  at the death of the Right Honorable John Curtin, member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Fremantle, and for more than three  years  Prime Minister of theCommonwealth of Australia; places on record its appreciation of his distinguished public service; and tenders to his widow, his son and. daughter, and all ' relatives, it3 profound, sympathy in their bereavement. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

-- I second the motion. We all grieve for  **Mrs. Curtin**  and her family and pray that they may have consolation in the memory of a just, upright and honoured life, devoted to the service of the Australian people. I also extend my deep sympathy to the Government and to the party of which John Curtin was the trusted leader. 

My mind has gone back very vividly in the last few hours to another occasion, five years ago, when death suddenly claimed three of my own much-loved colleagues.  No  government can fail to suffer deeply from such losses, for good Ministers not only wind themselves into the hearts of their associates, but they also become, as it were, a vital part of the whole structure of governments. 

Of John Curtin I can say, as I believe we all can say, with a full heart, "He was my friend, faithful and just to me". As a Prime Minister, I owed very much to his friendship and understanding, always freely and informally extended. As an Opposition Leader, I have long admired his political skill, his capacity for securing unity of purpose and direction, his unflagging industry, his willingness to put upon a far from robust constitution burdens which most men would have been glad to avoid, his selfless devotion to the Australian people. 

To-day we lay aside controversy to pay our brief tributes to one who sought nothing in politics except the good of all others, as he understood it; who followed his lights with unswerving fidelity; who really believed in justice ; who saw politics clearly as a conflict of ideas and not as a sordid battle of personal hostilities and ignoble ambitions. 

It was possible, and from my point of view necessary, to attack on political grounds John Curtin's politics or his public administration ; it was impossible and unthinkable to attack his probity, his honesty of purpose, the man himself. He has left behind him a good name and an honoured memory. 

##### Mr FADDEN:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Australian Country party &middot; Darling Downs</small>

-- This is indeed a sad occasion, because not only does this House mourn the loss of the Prime Minister and. Leader of the House, not only does the Labour party grieve at the passing of its great leader, but also Australia has lost in the death of its Avar-time Prime Minister one who personified all that Australia is and means. I join with the Acting Prime Minister  **(Mr. Forde)**  and the Leader of the Opposition  **(Mr. Menzies)**  in conveying to  **Mrs. Curtin**  and ner family our heartfelt sympathy. 

John Curtin was a very humble man. He was a generous and kind man. His ideas and convictions were deeprooted, and he fought strenuously for them. His political disagreements were always conducted with extreme dignity, and his co-operation at all times was generous and valuable. I did not have the privilege or pleasure to know John Curtin for very long, but I knew him long enough to appreciate his qualities, and to count him among my most intimate friends, and most valuable advisers. When I first entered this Parliament, I made an immediate assessment *of John Curtin's ability as a debater, and of his strenuous efforts on behalf of his party and its platform. But it was not until 1940, when the Advisory War Council was created, that I got close to John Curtin, and we founded a friendship that has endured ever since. He brought to all matters a brilliant mind and conscientious consideration. He forgot politics, recognizing that the war emergency and Australia's national wellbeing transcended all party considerations. That was the way in which he approached all matters that came before the Advisory War Council. 

I recall, with the greatest possible gratification, that when I had the responsibility of acting as Prime Minister during the absence abroad of the right honorable member for Kooyong  **(Mr. Menzies),**  and the gathering war clouds in the Pacific convinced some of us that war with Japan was inevitable, John Curtin unhesitatingly, as also did the Vice-President of the Executive Council  **(Mr. Beasley),**  joined with me in February, 1941, in making an appeal to Australian national sentiment for an fill-in war effort. We were seriously criticized in many quarters for having issued that warning; but nevertheless, John Curtin showed his readiness to co-operate with the Government and his determination to place the interests of Australia before all other interests. 

Time brought its political changes; and in October, 1941, it was his responsibility to form a' government. On the 7 th December, 1941, the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbour, and Australia was menaced by a new and a nearer aggressor. Then it became John Curtin's task to marshal the whole of Australia's resources to meet this new threat, and he became Australia's wartime leader. Although he was not in the fighting services or in the front line, it can be said, truthfully and sincerely, that he died fighting for Australia. He was conscientious to the last degree, and wore himself out at his post. The strain under which he laboured increased, and finally led to his death. Honorable members may take a lesson from this very sad event. Whilst it is fundamental to democracy to disagree and . dispute on political matters and policy, let us do it with dignity and decency, as did John Curtin during the whole time that I knew him. 

This is the second occasion on which honorable members have mourned the loss of an Australian Prime Minister since I became a mem'ber of this Parliament, and it is sad to recollect that both the late Joseph Lyons, and John Curtin, died in the service of Australia, and, indeed, of civilization. Neither had the opportunity, his task fulfilled, to take a moment's leisure in retirement. The people should appreciate what public men give in their service to Australia, what the responsibility means, and to what, their untiring efforts lead. John 

Curtin was not a robust man. He did not have those physical qualities and advantages that would have enabled him to bear his load of responsibility easily; but he used his strength unsparingly in the service of Australia and our Allies, and in the maintenance of constitutional authority and freedom. It is said that John Curtin, who marshalled Australia's resources for an all-in war effort, did not live to see the final triumph of the Allies over Japan, and the restoration of peace in the world. 1 know from, my conversations with him that his hopes lay in the future, tie had great visions, great plans. He wanted to see this war successfully terminated. But our Lord thought otherwise, and as with all things earthly, even man himself must submit to time's invincible sway. On behalf of the Australian Country party, I extend sympathy to all those, including the Australian nation, who mourn the loss of i hat great Australian. John Curtin. 

##### Mr SCULLIN:<br><small class="text-muted">Yarra</small>

-- The three leaders of this House have paid very fine tributes to the public work and the personal attributes of John Curtin, and [ shall not attempt to add any words to what they have said, particularly about his public service. As one of the oldest of his friends in this chamber, [ am grateful for the words that have been uttered this afternoon. I wish that lie could have been present to hear how highly he was esteemed by political friends and opponents. The outstanding attribute of John Curtin - was the kindness that he displayed to every one. I experienced it for a number of years. As one of the previous speakers said, there 13 a. lesson to be learned from his passing. In the stillness of death, he is still with us, and still conveying a message to us, as he conveyed many a message in eloquent words in this chamber. His end teaches us that it is not hard work, cither mental or physical, that kills a man; it is anxiety and worry. Looking back over the years, I sometimes wonder how much we weigh our words in our opposition to each other, and in striving for the ideals in which we believe. How often do we think what effect our words will have upon the one who is listening to our criticism? None of us is blame less; but here in this chamber, where we mould the destiny of the nation, and where we gather to-day to mourn the loss of a great man whom we all respected and admired, and for whom most of us had the deepest affection, let us remember that perhaps we might, by greater tolerance, spare one another some of the barbs of criticism, many of them undeserved, which fall on each and every one of us. The hardest struggle in leadership, or in any responsible position, is the making of decisions of a vital character in times of crisis. They take a toll, but so also do misunderstandings, to say nothing of the misrepresentation which often arises from these decisions. So, as time passes, I become more convinced that we can learn the lesson of tolerance. To-day, we may learn a lesson from the end o)f our great and beloved colleague. He was a greaand trusted leader ; but he was more than that : he was a true mate, and every one of us who had the privilege of claiming mateship with him will treasure his memory while life remains. Our sympathy goes out to all his loved ones in their great sorrow. 

##### Mr HUGHES:<br><small class="text-muted">North Sydney</small>

-- -This is a sad day for this Parliament and for the people throughout the Commonwealth. The Prime Minister is dead. The man who, for nearly four years led the country through its darkest days, when the heavens- were black with omens of disaster, when the news from every front told a story of enemy triumphs unrelieved by one Allied gain; the man who. by his unwavering courage, wise leadership, and winged words, roused the people of Australia to action, has gone from na. That voice, which urged us forward, which revived our flagging spirits, which spurred us on to still further efforts, is hushed in death. The Leader of the Government, the man to whom all sections of the community turned for counsel and aid through the years of trial, when the country groped its way through a darkness that could almost be felt, has passed away; at an hour when the black clouds have been swept away and the sun of victory begins to lighten the heavens. He died, as he would have wished, at the post of duty. Of no man can it be more truly said, that he literally gave hi? life for his country. He was a great Australian. He has gone, but he leaves behind him a name that will live ever fresh and fragrant in the hearts of the people of Australia. To his widow and family I tender my sincere and heartfelt sympathy. 

##### Mr JOHNSON:<br><small class="text-muted">Kalgoorlie</small>

-- My colleagues from "Western Australia have done me the very great honour of choosing me to associate them, and myself, with the resolution now before the House. This is a sad day for Australia, particularly for Western Australia, where the late Prime Minister established a wide circle of true, personal friends. John Curtin came to Western Australia in  1917.  He answered a call from  the  Labour movement to take over a Labour newspaper which at that time, was  struggling  for its existence. By his great devotion to duty he succeeded in setting upon a firm foundation the  *Westralian Worker.*  At that time John Curtin had no political, ambitions, but later, at the request of many personal friends, he agreed to submit himself as a candidate for the electorate of Fremantle. In doing so, he undertook to face the many problems associated with the life of a parliamentarian. By his outstanding ability, true friendship and mateship, which only those who were close to him can fully appreciate, he soon won his way to high office in the Australian Labour party. Eventually he became leader of the Australian Labour party in this Parliament, upon the retirement of the right honorable member for Yarra  **(Mr. Scullin).**  When he assumed office, the many factions existing within the Labour movement, did not augur well for its final unity. However, John Curtin devoted many years of hard work to achieving unity, and the measure of his success is the number of representatives of the Labour party in this Parliament to-day. The task which John Curtin accomplished was all the more difficult because his home was in Western Australia. For many years, even before he became Prime Minister, he had to sacrifice his home life.. He made that sacrifice in an endeavour to consolidate the forces of the Labour movement, which he loved, and of whose principles he was a staunch advocate. .But at what a cost! To-day, every section of the community - every man, woman and child in Australia - respects, and will remember the name of John Curtin. He rendered a great service to this nation in its darkest hours and I am proud to have heard in this Parliament, the honest and well-merited acknowledgment of his work by members of all parties. Nothing that I could say would add anythingto the kind tributes which have been paid to our late Prime Minister. In conclusion, I paraphrase what 1 believe to be an appropriate verse,, written by Roderick Quinn on the death of the late Donald M!acDonald, who also gave great service to the Labour movement - 

  >He was ever at hand in the thick of the fight 
  >
  >Trusted and true and tried, 
  >
  >And God summoned a man that we ill could, spare 
  >
  >When our Prime Minister died. 

##### Sir EARLE PAGE:<br><small class="text-muted">Cowper</small>

-- I desire to offer my deep sympathy to  **Mrs. Curtin**  and her children, and also to pay homage of respect and gratitude to John Curtin for his great public services to Australia,, the Empire, and the world.  His  premature death shocks every one in Australia. Especially does it shock those of us whowere privileged to know him and toserve alongside him in this Parliament for so many years. He has died as a direct result of the tremendous tasks and responsibilities that war has entailed. He is a war casualty, as much as is any fighting man. 

The death of a second Prime Minister in office - just six years after the death of"  **Mr. Lyons**  - emphasizes the terrific mental and physical strain that public men carry in this country. That strain is accentuated by the immense distancesin Australia, the small number of its parliamentary representatives, and, as well, the sacrifice of their home life. The time is overdue to give them greater relief from the burdens with which they have to contend. lt is over eighteen years since I first knew John Curtin. The Government with which I was associated had appointed -him to the Child Endowment Commission. On that body, he showed! great qualities. It must have been a matter of great satisfaction to him to have seen operating for the last five years, legislation which that commission advocated. 

Then he came into this Parliament, and I was privileged to know him intimately, first, as a private member and, then, as leader of his party. A relationship, based on mutual friendship, frankness and confidence, grew up between us, as leaders of our respective parties.  His  personal kindness and consideration, especially on the death of  **Mr. Lyons,**  will always remain most fragrant memories. I shall ever cherish the recollection of our last long chat together just a few weeks ago. Similar memories will keep him alive in the minds of all honorable members. 

John Curtin came into this Parliament with a well-stored mind and a very keen intelligence. It was a matter for pleasure to see how, with increasing responsibilities and experience of administration, his mental stature and grasp of affairs progressively grew. He became a spokesman for Australia, of whom we all were proud. He was one of our most gifted orators and masters of expression. He was a great parliamentary leader, and a distinguished servant of the people whom he loved. 

I extend my profound sympathy to his widow and family, to his party, and to the nation at his untimely passing when he can be so ill-spared. 

##### Mr COLES:<br><small class="text-muted">Henty</small>

-- I support the motion so sympathetically submitted by the Acting Prime Minister and supported from all sides of the House. As has been said, John Curtin gave his life for his country in the truest sense of the words, and his passing will undoubtedly be deeply mourned by all sections of people throughout the Commonwealth and by large numbers of people in other countries. As a- war-time leader, John Curtin proved himself to be capable of really great deeds.  His  very action in assuming the position of Prime Minister against the avowed policy of his party showed that he placed the needs of the nation before the needs of sections, and set a shining example to the people of Australia.  His  constant skill in guiding the affairs of the nation throughout the most critical and perilous days of its history will long bc remembered.  His  name will bo revered by a thankful people for the fearless courage which he displayed when calling into action for the defence of Australia, at great sacrifice to many, the strongest effort that it was humanly possible to produce and which, with the help of our allies, resulted in stemming the tide of Japanese aggression.  His  ability to rise to the needs of the moment in the face of danger and his capacity, regardless of criticism, patiently to organize the Australian war programme, in co-operation with the Allied leaders, to fit into a plan of world strategy for the most effective use of available resources, placed him in the ranks of the great figures of our time. In paying my tribute to his memory, I wish to say that one of the greatest privileges of my life was my personal association with him. I feel deeply the loss of a true friend. My sincere sympathy goes out to  **Mrs. Curtin**  and her family in (heir bereavement. 

##### Mr BARNARD:<br><small class="text-muted">Bass</small>

-- I associate myself with the sentiments expressed on all sides of the House on this very sad occasion. Having been closely acquainted with John Curtin while he was Leader of the Opposition for a. period of at least six years, circumstances having forced us, as representatives of distant States, to spend a great deal of our time in Canberra, I came to know him well. To know him was to admire his great ability, his thoughtfulness for others, and his many sterling qualities, which he radiated amongst those who came in contact with him. Australia has produced many fine sons. Very few of them, if any, have possessed qualities equal to those which John Curtin possessed. None of them displayed greater courage or served their nation bettor in its hour of need than he did. He died in harness, as others have already said, and it was just as much a soldier's death as if he had died on the battlefield. I express my sincere sympathy to his widow and family. 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

{: .page-start }
page 4119

{:#debate-1}
### INTERIM ADMINISTRATION

##### Mr FORDE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister &middot; Capricornia &middot; ALP</small>

-- I inform the House that I propose to wait upon His Royal Highness the Governor-General to-morrow to tender certain advice with regard to the administration of the Government of the Commonwealth until a new Ministry is appointed. 

{: .page-start }
page 4119

{:#debate-2}
### SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT

Motion (by  **Mr. Forde)**  agreed to - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to Wednesday, the18th July, at 3 p.m. 

{: .page-start }
page 4119

{:#debate-3}
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ALL MEMBERS

Motion (by  **Mr. Forde)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave of absence be given to every member of the House of Representatives from t he determination of this sitting of the House tothe date of its next sitting. 

{: .page-start }
page 4119

{:#debate-4}
### ADJOURNMENT

##### Mr FORDE:<br><small class="text-muted">Acting Prime Minister and Minister for the Army &middot; Capricornia &middot; ALP</small>

-- As a mark of respect to the memory of the late Prime Minister, I move - 

  >That the House do now adjourn. 

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

Mouse  adjourned at  3.20 p.m. 

