---
house: House of Representatives
date: 1945-02-21
year: 1945
session: 3
page_start: 17
parliament: 17
file_id: 19450221_reps_17_181
debates:
  - title: "OPENING OF THE SESSION"
    id: "#debate-0"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH BILL 1945"
    id: "#debate-1"
    type: bill
    subdebates:
  - title: "DEATH OF MR. SAMUEL DENNIS"
    id: "#debate-2"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA"
    id: "#debate-3"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH"
    id: "#debate-4"
    type: miscellaneous
    subdebates:
  - title: "SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT"
    id: "#debate-5"
    type: special adjournment
    subdebates:
  - title: "PAPERS"
    id: "#debate-6"
    type: papers
    subdebates:
---

* [OPENING OF THE SESSION](#debate-0)
* [SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH BILL 1945](#debate-1)
* [DEATH OF MR. SAMUEL DENNIS](#debate-2)
* [LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA](#debate-3)
* [GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH](#debate-4)
* [SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT](#debate-5)
* [PAPERS](#debate-6)


----

The, House met at 3 p.m. pursuant to the proclamation of HisRoyal Highness the Governor-General. 

The  Clerk  read the proclamation. 


 **Mr. Speaker (Hon. J. S.Rosevear)** took the chair, and read prayers. 

{: .page-start }
page 17

{:#debate-0}
### OPENING OF THE SESSION

The Usher of the Black Rod, being announced, was admitted, and delivered the message that  His  Royal Highness the Governor-General desired the attendance of honorable members in the Senate Chamber forthwith . 


 **Mr. Speaker** and honorable members attended accordingly, and having returned, 

{: .page-start }
page 17

{:#debate-1}
### SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH BILL 1945

Motion (by  **Mr. Curtin)**  agreed to - 

  >That leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act to amend the Science and Industry Research Act 1920-1939. 

Bill presented, and read a first time. 

{: .page-start }
page 17

{:#debate-2}
### DEATH OF MR. SAMUEL DENNIS

##### Mr CURTIN:<br><small class="text-muted">Prime Minister and Minister for Defence &middot; Fremantle &middot; ALP</small>

-- I regret to inform honorable members of the death of  **Mr. Samuel**  Dennis, a former member of this House,which occurred in Melbourne on the 28th January. 

The late gentleman was elected to the House of Representatives for the Division of Batman at the general elections in 1931, and was defeated at the general elections in 1934. I was not a member of the House during the period that he occupied a seat, consequently I had not personally made his acquaintance; but I know of his work, and of the high personal esteem in which he was held by his fellow members. 

It was, however, more particularly in the sphere of local government that  **Mr. Dennis**  gave outstanding service. He was for 36 years a member of the Northcote Council, and twice during that period occupied the position of mayor. He represented the council on the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works for many years, and acted as vicechairman of the board. He was also closely associated with church and sporting club organizations, and his loss will be severely felt throughout the district in which he resided. Our sympathy goes out to the widow and family of one who has left behind a valuable record of public service. I move - 

  >That this House records itssincere regret at the death of  **Mr. Samuel**  Dennis, a former member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Batman, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service and tendersits deep sympathy to his widow and the members of his family in their bereavement. 

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

-- I second the motion. As the Prime Minister  **(Mr. Curtin)**  has pointed out, the great bulk of a long period of public service rendered by the late gentleman was rendered in municipal politics; though he was in this House for  a period of three years. In addition to his work in municipal affairs, he was a man with very close and  a  variety of interests in church work, and in sporting bodies. Ina dozen ways he showed himself to be a good citizen. He is, perhaps, one of many proofs which we have had in Australia, that the foundation of a healthy public life is healthy, disinterested, honest local government. He played his part in that respect, and left behind him, particularly in his own city, a record which any man might envy. 

Mr.FADDEN (Darling DownsLeader of the Australian Country party). -The Australian Country party associates itself with the sentiments that have been expressed, and the motion that has been moved and seconded. 

Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable members standing in their places. 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL. 


 **Mr. CURTIN** (Fremantle - Prime Ministerand Minister for Defence). - I desire formally to announce that  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, accompanied by  Her  Royal Highness the Duchess of Gloucester and their two children, Prince William and Prince Richard, arrived in Australia on the 28th January,1945. 

His Royal Highness was sworn in as Governor-General and CommanderinChief in and over the Commonwealth of Australia,at Canberra, on the 30th January. 

MINISTERIAL CHANGES. 


 **Mr. CURTIN** (Fremantle - Prime 

Ministerand Minister for Defence). - I formally announce that, consequent on changes which have been effected in the organization of Commonwealth departments of State, the Ministry is now constituted as follows: - 

Prime Minister and Minister for Defence - The Right Honorable John Curtin. 

Minister for the Army (and Deputy Prime Minister)- The Right Honorable F. M. Forde. 

Treasurer - The Honorable J. B. Chifley. 

Attorney-General and Minister for External Affairs- The Right Honorable H. V. Evatt, LL.D., D.Litt., K.C. 

Vice-President of the Executive Council - The Honorable J. A. Beasley. 

Minister for the Navy, Minister for Munitions and Minister for Aircraft Production - The Honorable. N. J.O. Makin. 

Minister for Trade and Customs -  **Senator the**  Honorable R. V. Keane. 

Minister for Labour and National Service - The HonorableE. J. Holloway. 

Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation - The Honorable A. S. Drakeford. 

Minister for Commerce and AgricultureThe Honorable W. J. Scully. 

Minister for Supply and Shipping -  **Senator the**  Honorable W. P. Ashley. 

Minister for Post-war Reconstruction and Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research - The Honorable J. J. Dedman. 

Minister for the Interior -  **Senator the**  Honorable J. S. Collings. 

Minister for Transport and Minister for External Territories - The Honorable E. J. Ward. 

Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services-Senator the HonorableJ. M.Fraser. 

Minister for Repatriation and Minister in charge of War Service Homes - The Honorable C. W. Frost. 

Minister for Home Security and Minister for Works - The Honorable H. P. Lazzarini. 

Postmaster-General -  **Senator the**  Honorable D. Cameron. 

Minister for Information - The Honorable A. A. Calwell. 

The members of the War Cabinet are - 


 **Mr. Curtin, Mr. Forde, Mr. Chifley, Dr. Evatt, Mr. Beasley, Mr. Makin, Mr. Drakeford** and  **Mr. Dedman.** 

Ministerial representation in the two chambers will be as follows : - 

In the House ofRepresentatives - 

TheRight Honorable F. M. Forde will represent the Minister for Trade and Customs. 

The Honorable J. A. Beasley will represent the Minister for Supply and Shipping. 

The Honorable E. J. Holloway will represent the Minister for Health and Minister for Social Services. 

The Honorable H. P. Lazzarini will represent the Minister for the Interior. 

The Honorable A. A. Calwell will represent the Postmaster-General. 

In the Senate - 


 **Senator the** HonorableR. V. Keane will represent the Prime Minister and Minister for Defence, the Treasurer, the Minister for Post-war Reconstruction and the Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and IndustrialResearch. 


 **Senator the** Honorable W. P. Ashley will represent the Attorney-General and Minister for External Affairs, the Minister for theNavy, and Minister for Munitions, the Minister for Labour and National Service, and the Minister for Information. 


 **Senator the** Honorable J. S. Collings will represent the Minister for Transport and Minister for External Territories and the Minister  for  Home Security and Minister for Works. 


 **Senator the** Honorable J. M. Fraser will represent the Minister for the Army and the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture. 


 **Senator the** Honorable D. Cameron will represent the Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation, the Minister for Aircraft Production, the Minister for Expatriation and Minister in charge of War Service Homes. 

{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-3}
### LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA

##### Mr MENZIES:<br><small class="text-muted">Leader of the Opposition &middot; Kooyong</small>

--  *by leave*  - I have to announce that, in consequence of the formation of the Liberal party of Australia, those who sit with me in this House desire to be known in future as members of the Liberal party. 

{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-4}
### GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH

Address-in-reply. 

##### Mr SPEAKER (Hon J S Rosevear:<br><small class="text-muted">DALLEY, NEW SOUTH WALES</small>

-- I have to report that the House this day attended HisRoyal Highness the Governor-General in the Senate chamber, where HisRoyal Highness was pleased to make a speech to both Houses of the Parliament of which I have received a copy (vide page 5). 

Motion (by  **Mr. Curtin)**  agreed to - 

  >That a committee, consisting of  **Mr. Fraser, Mr. Burke,**  and the mover, be appointed to prepare an Address- in-Reply to the speech delivered by  His  Royal Highness the GovernorGeneral to both Houses of the Parliament, and that the committee do report at the next sitting. 

{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-5}
### SPECIAL ADJOURNMENT

Motion (by Mr.Curtin) agreed to - 

  >That the House, at its rising, adjourn to to-morrow, at 2.30 p.m. 

{: .page-start }
page 19

{:#debate-6}
### PAPERS

The  following papers were presented  : - 

Arbitration (Public Service) Act - Determinationsby the Arbitrator, &amp;c. - 

1944- 

No. 29 - Commonwealth Storemen and Packers' Union of Australia and Commonwealth Naval Storehousemen's Association. 

No. 30 - Commonwealth Storemen and Packers' Union and Commonwealth Naval Storehousemen's Association. 

No. 31 - Commonwealth Foremen's Association. 

No. 32 - Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association of Australasia and Arms, Explosives and Munition Workers' Federation of Australia. 

1945- 

No. 1 - Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees' Union of Australia. 

No. 2 - Professional Officers' Association, Commonwealth Public Service. 

Canned Fruits Export Charges Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1 945, No. 5. 

Commonwealth Public Service Act - Appointment - Department of the Treasury - C. Campbell-Smith. 

Commonwealth Railways Act - By-law No. 85. 

Commonwealth Shipping Act - Commonwealth Shipping Board - Cockatoo Island Dockyard - Balance-sheet and Liquidation Account, together with Auditor-General's report thereon, for year ended 29th February, 1944. 

Customs Act - Customs Proclamations - Nos. 612,614-618. 

Customs Act and Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, No. 177. 

Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules- 1944, Nos. 170, 171,180, 185. 1945, No.6. 

Electoral - Referendums - Statistical Returns in relation to the submission to the Electors of a Proposed Law for the Alteration of the Constitution entitled " Constitution Alteration (Post-war Reconstruction and Democratic Rights) 1944"; together with Summaries of Referendums, 1906-1944. 

High Commissioner Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, No. 172. 

Lands Acquisition Act or Lands Acquisition Act and National Security (Supplementary) Regulations - Land acquired for - 

Commonwealth purposes - 

Adelaide River, Northern Territory. 

Albany, Western Australia. 

Albury, New South Wales. 

Amberley, Queensland (2). 

Bendigo, Victoria. 

Broken Bay, New South Wales. 

Bulimba, Queensland. 

Camden, New South Wales. 

Camooweal, Queensland. 

Cecil Plains, Queensland. 

Ceduna, South Australia. 

Charters Towers, Queensland (2). 

Colac, Victoria. 

Corowa, New South Wales. 

Darwin, Northern Territory. 

Dubbo, New South Wales. 

Eagle Farm, Queensland. 

Laverton, Victoria. 

Lidcombe, New South Wales. 

Maribyrnong, Victoria. 

Muswellbrook, New South Wales. 

Normanton, Queensland. 

North Ryde, New South Wales. 

Oakey, Queensland. 

Orange, New South Wales. 

Penshurst, Victoria. 

Port Melbourne, Victoria. 

Truganina. Victoria. 

Warracknabeal, Victoria. 

Woolloomooloo, New South Wales. 

Postal purposes - 

Adelaide, South Australia. 

Bowen, Queensland. 

Brisbane, Queensland. 

Carmila, Queensland. 

Dalby, Queensland. 

Gretna, Tasmania. 

Hartwell, Victoria. 

Hunter's Hill, New South Wales. 

Hurstville, New South Wales. 

Melbourne, Victoria. 

Morwell, Victoria. 

Newtown, New South Wales. 

South Melbourne, Victoria. 

West Maitland, New South Wales (2). 

Wonthaggi, Victoria. 

Telephonic purposes - Manilla, New 

South Wales. 

National Security Act - 

National Security (Agricultural Aids) Regulations - Orders - 

Hay, straw, and chaff (New South Wales ) . 

Hay, straw and chaff (Victoria). 

National Security (Agricultural Machin  ery ) Regulations - Order - Agricultural machinery (No. 4). 

National Security (Apple and Pear Acquisition ) Regulations - Order - Apple and pear acquisition 1944-1945. 

National Security (Building Operations) Regulations - Order - Building operations (Northern Territory). 

National Security (Capital Issues) Regulations - Orders - Exemption (2). 

National Security (Emergency Control) Regulations - Orders - 

Papua and New Guinea (Administration) (No. 3). 

Thursday Island Compensation Board (Cancellation ) . 

National Security (Food Control) Regulations - Orders - Nos. 11-17. 

National Security (General) Regulations - Orders - 

Chain manufacture. 

Control of - 

Elastic materials (No. 2). 

Essential materials (Nos. 11, 12). 

Machine tools (No. 3). 

Overseas communications (Otherwise than by post). 

Overseas postal communications. 

Overseas postal communications (Prisoners of war). 

Packages ( No. 2 ) . 

Feminine outerwear. 

Fish (Estimates and returns). 

Fishing industry secondary operatives  ( Registration ) ( Revocation ) . 

Heating and cooking appliances (Control of manufacture) (Revocation). 

Heating and cooking appliances (Retail sales) (Revocation). 

Knitted goods. 

Male outerwear. 

Navigation (Brisbane River and Moreton Bay - small craft) (No. 2). 

Navigation (Control of public traffic) (No. 5). 

Prohibited places (10). 

Protected areas. 

Shirts, collars and pyjamas. 

Steam boilers (No. 2). 

Taking possession of land, &amp;c.( 167). 

Traffic on roads. 

Use of land (29). 

Wireless stations control. 

Woven underwear. 

Orders by State Premiers - 

New South Wales (Nos. 51, 52). 

South Australia (No. 5 of 1944). 

Tasmania (No. 30). 

National Security (Man Power) Regulations - Orders - Protected undertakings (124). 

National Security (Maritime Industry) Regulations - Orders - Nos. 48, 49. 

National Security (Prices) Regulations - 

Declarations - Nos. 149-153. 

Orders- Nos. 1747-1899. National Security (Rationing) Regulations - Orders - Nos. 56-72. 

National Security (Shipping Coordination) Regulations - Orders - Nos. 76-80. 

National Security (Supplementary) Regulations - 

Orders by State Premiers - 

Queensland (dated17th January, 1945). 

South Australia No. 1 of 1945). 

Regulations - Statutory Rules - 1944, Nos. 166, 167, 168, 169, 174, 175, 176, 187, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192. 1945, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13. 

Statement of Australian Banking Statistics for the five quarters ended 31st December, 1944. 

Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, Nos. 182, 183. 

Navigation Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, No. 178. 

Post and Telegraph Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1945, No. 10. 

Quarantine Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, No. 184. 

Science and Industry Endowment Act - Report by the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for year 1943-44. 

Seat of Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government (Administration) Act- 

Ordinances - 

1944- 

No. 10 - Police Superannuation. 

No. 11 - Trustee. 

1945- 

No. 1 - Careless use of fire. 

No. 2 - Race-courses. 

Regulations - 1944 - No.6 (City Area 

Leases Ordinance). 

Women's Employment Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1944, No. 179. 

House adjourned at 3.51 p.m. 

